APPENDIX B TO THE MATERIAL RULES
                       Characteristics of Scoring apparatus
      The installation of a clock and a system for showing the score are both obligatory for the
      homologation of scoring apparatuses; they must be visible to the spectators.

                                               A. Foil
                 1. The Central Judging Apparatus (cf. m.51)
      Principles
      1.   The apparatus registers when a break occurs in the circuit of the foil, that is to say that the
           electrical current which is circulating permanently in the foil circuit is broken when a
           touch is made.
      2.   The apparatus will show a red signal on one side and a green signal on the other when a
           touch is registered on target; white signals will indicate touches off the target on either
           side.
      3.   The audible signals will consist either of a short ring, or of a continuous note which will
           be automatically limited to two seconds. Either sort of sound will occur whenever a visual
           signal appears. The sound signal must be identical for both sides of the apparatus.
      4.   After registering a touch, whether on target or off target, the apparatus must no longer be
           able to register a subsequent touch on target on the same side of the apparatus.
      5.   No priority must be indicated between a touch registered against one competitor and a
           touch registered against their opponent.
      6.   After a period of time of 300 milliseconds (± 25 milliseconds tolerance) after the first touch
           signaled by the apparatus (this period of time bears no relationship to “fencing time”
           which is the basis of judging according to the conventions governing foil fencing), the
           latter must ignore all signals for subsequent touches. b)
      Sensitivity and regularity
      1.   Any touch must cause a signal whatever the resistance of the circuits external to the
           apparatus. The duration of the break of contact which must always ensure that a signal is
           registered must be 14 milliseconds (± 1 ms of tolerance).
           Depending on the increase in the resistance, the apparatus may register:
               1)   a valid touch only;
               2)   a valid touch and a non-valid touch simultaneously;
               3)   a non-valid touch only.
           The resistance must always be less than 500 ohms for 1) and 2).
      2.   The registering of a valid touch must be guaranteed when there is a break of contact of 13
           to 15 milliseconds, when the exterior resistance is between of 0 and 500 ohms.
     3. The contact time is the same for valid and non-valid touches.
USA Fencing Rules for Competition              182                                   Version: November 2025
           A break of contact of duration of 14 milliseconds (± 1 ms) must always ensure that a signal
           is registered, when the exterior resistance is between 0 and 200 ohms.
      4.   The apparatus must be capable of supporting an increase in the resistance in the closed
           circuit of the foils of up to 200 ohms, without causing a “non-valid” signal to register.
      5.   Even if the resistance of the foil earth circuit is increased up to 100 ohms, none of the
           following irregular phenomena must occur:
           —   that touches are registered on the guard or on the strip;
           —   that it is possible to obtain the registration of a touch merely by contact of the blade
               or the pointe d’arrêt (without depressing it) on the conductive jacket of either
               competitor.
      6.   When the blades are in contact, irrespective of the resistance in ohms between them, the
           apparatus must be capable of registering normally the touches exchanged, valid and non-
           valid.
      7.   A specification for tests of apparatus under different conditions will be supplied on
           request by the SEMI Commission of the FIE.
      8.   A specification for tests also includes the control of functioning of the yellow lamps.
      9.   The Congress of the FIE has authorized this Commission to modify or complete the above
           requirements whenever technical improvements allow the construction of apparatus
           which can ensure the better operation of the electrical foil judging apparatus.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  183                              Version: November 2025
          A.2. Anti-Blocking Type Central Judging Apparatus
This apparatus must conform to the requirements of the rules set out in Articles m.44–m.51 inclusive,
as well as paragraphs a) “Principles” and b) “Sensitivity and regularity” above, with the exception of
point 6 of paragraph b).
Even if a fault in the insulation in a fencer’s equipment causes a short between their conductive jacket
and their weapon, the apparatus should still be capable of registering both valid and non-valid
touches.
Depending on the resistance of the return circuit of the opponent’s foil, the apparatus must register a
valid touch up to 200 ohms and non-valid touches above this value.
The apparatus must be equipped with two yellow lamps regulated as follows. The yellow lamp
on the side of either fencer must automatically light up and remain alight as soon as the resistance
between the conductive jacket of that fencer and their weapon is less than 450 ohms. When this
resistance is in excess of 475 ohms, the yellow lamp should never light up.
These yellow lamps serve only to indicate insulation faults.
If one or both of the yellow lamps remain lit up, the Referee must stop the bout and call the technical
experts on duty to eliminate the fault.
The yellow lamps must not indicate any contact between the fencer’s conductive jacket and the
conductive strip.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                 184                              Version: November 2025
                                               B. Épée
Principle
      The apparatus registers when contact is established between the wires forming the circuit in
      the épée, thus completing the circuit.
Timing
      The apparatus must register only the first touch which is made. If the interval of time
      between two touches is less than 40 milliseconds (1/25th of a second), the apparatus must
      register a double touch (both signal lamps must light up simultaneously). When the interval
      is greater than 50 milliseconds (1/20th of a second) the apparatus must register only one touch
      (only one signal lamp is lit). The tolerance allowed for timing the apparatus is that between
      these two limits (1/25th and 1/20th of a second).
Sensitivity
      When the external resistance is normal, that is 10 ohms, the apparatus must register touches
      when these are made with a duration of contact of 2–10 milliseconds. With an exceptional
      external resistance of 100 ohms the apparatus must still register a touch, but without any
      specific duration of contact.
      The apparatus must not register signals of less than 2 milliseconds duration.
Non-registration
      The apparatus must not register touches which are made on the earthed material (on the
      guard or on the conductive strip), even when there is a resistance of 100 ohms in the earth
      circuit. e)
Visual signals
      1.    Visual signals include at least two signal lamps on each side of the apparatus, so designed
            that if one lamp does not function it does not prevent the other from lighting up nor cause
            an excessive current through the latter.
      2.    The signal lamps should give a red signal on one side of the apparatus and a green signal
            on the other.
      3.    The apparatus should have a pilot light to show that it is switched on. This light should be
            dim and not colored.
      4.    The apparatus may include lights which indicate shorts. These should be orange in color.
      5.    The light-bulbs which show when touches are registered are usually covered with
            translucent shades. It must, however, be possible to remove these shades and use naked
            lights, when the light conditions in the locality make it desirable to do so (strong sunlight
            or, exceptionally, in the open air). f)
Audible signals
      The apparatus must have a loud sound signal. The apparatus may include a device which
      allows the sound signal to be stopped before the apparatus is reset.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  185                               Version: November 2025
                                               C. Sabre
Principles
      1.     The apparatus works by contact between any uninsulated part of the sabre and the
             conductive surface of the opposing fencer’s jacket, glove and mask.
      2.     For touches made on these valid conductive surfaces, the apparatus shows a red light on
             one side and a green light on the other.
             If the guard or blade of a fencer’s sabre is in contact with the conductive surface of their
             own equipment (signaled by a yellow light), a valid touch made by that fencer must still
             register.
      3.     The audible signal will consist of either one short ring or a continuous note lasting 1–2
             seconds, simultaneous with the light signals. The sound will be the same for both sides of
             the apparatus.
      4.     Touches made on non-conductive surfaces must not be signaled.
      5.     The apparatus must be equipped with two yellow lamps, one on each side, which will
             indicate a contact between the guard or blade of a fencer’s sabre and the conductive
             surface of their own equipment.
      6.     The apparatus must be equipped with two white lamps, identical to those on a foil
             apparatus, which if permanently illuminated, accompanied by a sound signal, indicate
             any abnormal electrical change in circuits B and C of the fencer at fault.
      7.     The apparatus must not signal a touch made by the blade whipping over to touch the
             opponent while in contact with their blade or guard.
      8.     After a touch has been registered, a subsequent touch made by the other fencer will only
             be registered if it occurs within a maximum delay of 170 milliseconds (± 10 ms of
             tolerance).
      9.     When the two blades touch, all the other rules should be strictly applied.
      10. The SEMI Commission of the FIE reserves the right to change the rules governing the
          apparatus, either to simplify or to improve its performance.
Sensitivity and regularity
      1.     The duration of contact during which a signal should be ensured should be 0.1–1
             milliseconds. These times may be varied in the light of experience and of laboratory tests
             carried out by the SEMI Commission.
             An apparatus will be rejected if a touch can be registered with a duration of contact of less
             than 0.1 milliseconds (time subject to modification).
      2.     The apparatus should allow an increase in the exterior resistance of the connections up to
             100 ohms without any drawbacks.
      3.     Should a fault in the insulation, down to 0 ohms, cause a leakage of current between a
             fencer’s valid conductive surface and their weapon, the apparatus should still be capable
             of registering all touches exchanged. The insulation fault will be signaled by the


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   186                              Version: November 2025
           illumination of the yellow lamp on the side of the fencer whose equipment is at fault
           when the resistance is 0–450 ohms.
           The registering of a valid touch on the guard or blade of the fencer at fault will be allowed
           provided that the electrical resistance between the guard or the blade and the valid
           surface is less than 250 ohms.
      4.   The apparatus should still function when the blades are in contact, or if there is contact
           between the blades and the guards, or between the two guards.
      5.   If the contact between the blade and the opponent’s target takes place “through the
           blade,” the apparatus:
           —   will register the touch between 0 and 4 ms (+ 1 ms);
           —   will prevent the touch being registered between 4 and 15 ms (+ 5 ms), on condition
               that the contact between the two blades is not interrupted more than a maximum of
               10 times in the interval.
      6.   Should there be a touch made by the whipping over of the blade which has not been
           signaled, whatever method has been used to prevent the signaling, after 15 ms (± 5 ms)
           from the contact of the blade with the valid target (the time for the registering of the whip)
           and unless there has been another touch, the apparatus should allow the normal
           registering of any subsequent touches.
      7.   A break in the control circuit (defined as more than 250 ohms) for 3 ms ± 2 ms will be
           signaled by the illumination of the white lamp on the side of the fencer at fault.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                 187                              Version: November 2025
