m.12
       1.   If the base of the barrel is not made in one piece with the blade, or if it does not permit the
            flattened piece at the tip of the blade to be retained, it must be screwed onto the end of the
            blade, which must be cut and threaded for this purpose under the following conditions.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   124                              Version: November 2025
       2.   Normally, only fixing by metal to metal is allowed. However, fixing by any material of
            great mechanical strength may be authorized after approval by the SEMI Commission of
            the FIE.
       3.   All methods of soldering or brazing or in general any heating which may affect the
            temper of the blade are forbidden. Only solder of very easily melted tin, used with a
            soldering iron, to prevent the tip from coming loose, is authorized.
       4.   The end of the blade before cutting the thread must not have a diameter at any point of
            less than 3.5 mm, and this without anything being wrapped around it, a process which is
            strictly forbidden.
       5.   The diameter of the core of the thread must not be less than 2.7 mm (thread SI 3.5 x 0.60).
            The threading must be very tight.
       6.   The part of the blade on which the barrel is fixed should be of a length of 7–8 mm entirely
            covered by the barrel. It is recommended that only the half of this length at the extremity
            of the blade be threaded. For the other half the barrel will have a smooth surface of 3.5
            mm diameter into which it should take some force for the corresponding part of the blade
            to be introduced.
       7.   When a barrel made of light alloy is used, instructions should be sought from the SEMI
            Commission of the FIE.
       8.   At the point at which the wire passes into the barrel, the width of the groove must not
            exceed 0.5 mm, and its depth must not exceed 0.6 mm measured on the diameter of the
            core of the thread, in order to weaken as little as possible the section of the blade.
       9.   Only the members of the SEMI Commission of the FIE or the Bout Committee can
            require the verification of the above points.
       The insulation of the barrel, the blade and the grip
