m.19
       1.   The electric barrel is completed by a point (pointe d’arrêt) which must conform to the
            following specifications
            a)   The point is cylindrical. Its front surface is flat and perpendicular to its axis. Its edge
                 will either be rounded with a radius of 0.5 mm or have a chamfer of 0.5 mm at 45°
                 (see Figure 10).
            b)   The diameter of the crown of the pointe d’arrêt is 8 mm with a tolerance of ± 0.05
                 mm. The diameter of the base must not be less than 7.7 mm.
            c)   The flange (collar) which guides the pointe d’arrêt as well as the insulating washer
                 must be sufficiently recessed in relation to the crown (it is recommended that it be
                 recessed in diameter by 0.3–0.5 mm) so that it shall not be possible to cause a touch to
                 be registered merely by sliding the depressed pointe d’arrêt against the convex
                 surface of the guard (see Figure 11) (cf. t.67.a).
       2.   The pressure required on the pointe d’arrêt in order to complete the circuit in the épée,
            and thus cause the apparatus to register a touch, must be more than 750 g, that is to say
            that this weight must be lifted by the spring of the point.
       3.   The weight used to check competitors’ épées on the strip consists of a metal cylinder
            drilled part of the way along its axis with a hole parallel to its sides; this hole, into which
            is inserted the end of the blade, must have an insulating lining to prevent its metallic parts
            coming into contact with the grounded mass of the épée which might then give a false
            result to the test.
            This weight of 750 g, which is supplied by the Organizing Committee, may have a
            tolerance of ± 3 g, i.e., 747–753 g.
       4.
            a)   The course or travel of the pointe d’arrêt required to complete the circuit in the épée
                 and thus cause the apparatus to register a touch, called the lighting stroke, must be
                 greater than 1 mm. The further course which the pointe d’arrêt may travel must be


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    128                               Version: November 2025
                 less than 0.5 mm. (This requirement is just as essential as that for the lighting stroke.)
                 The gauge used should have a tolerance of a maximum of ±0.05 mm.
            b)   To enable a check to be made on the strip, the total course or travel of the point must
                 be greater than 1.5 mm (cf. t.43). The gauge used should have a tolerance of a
                 maximum of ±0.05 mm.
            c)   Adjusting the lighting stroke by means of screws or any other external fixing device,
                 once the point has been assembled on the weapon, is forbidden.
            d)   An external screw or similar fixing device is only allowed if it is actually part of the
                 assembling of the point
            e)   The head of the screw or fixing device must never project beyond the flat top surface
                 of the point and its housing in the flat surface may not exceed 2 mm in diameter.
       5.   The pointe d’arrêt must be retained in the barrel in at least two points equally spaced, or
            by any other system approved by the SEMI Commission of the FIE.
       6.   When there is a touch, the electrical contact must be established.
       Method of affixing the barrel
