m.20
       If the base of the barrel is not made in one piece with the blade, or if it does not permit the
       flattened inset piece at the tip of the blade to be retained, the barrel must be screwed onto
       the end of the blade, which must be cut and threaded for this purpose under the following
       conditions.
       1.   Normally, only fixing by metal to metal is allowed. However, fixing by any insulating
            material of great mechanical strength may be authorized after approval by the SEMI
            Commission of the FIE.
       2.   Only solder of very easily melted tin, used with a soldering iron, to prevent the tip from
            coming loose, is authorized.
       3.   The end of the blade, before cutting the thread, must not have a diameter at any point
            which is less than 4 mm and this without anything being wrapped around it, a process
            which is strictly forbidden.
       4.
            a)   The diameter of the core of thread at the end of the blade must not be less than
                 3.05 mm (thread SI 4.0 x 0.70).
            b)   The part of the blade on which the barrel is fixed should be of a length of 7–8
                 mm entirely covered by the barrel. It is recommended that only the half of this
                 length, at the extremity of the blade, be threaded. For the other half, the barrel
                 will have a smooth surface of 4.0 mm diameter into which it should take some
                 force for the corresponding part of the blade to be introduced.
       5.   The groove necessary to enable the wires to enter the barrel must be cut in such a way
            that it weakens as little as possible the section of the blade.
       6.   Only the members of the SEMI Commission of the FIE or the Bout Committee can
            require the verification of the above points.
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   129                               Version: November 2025
                                             Figure 10. Épée design of point
  This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes
                                                 precedence.




                                        Figure 11. Épée details of tip and point
  This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                               130                                       Version: November 2025
                                                 SABRE
