m.23
       1.   The blade, which must be of steel, is approximately rectangular in section. The maximum
            length of the blade is 88 cm. The minimum width of the blade, which must be at the tip, is
            4 mm; its minimum thickness, also measured immediately below the tip, must be at least
            1.2 mm.
       2.   The end of the blade must be folded over onto itself or be fashioned in one piece to form a
            tip which, viewed end on, must have a square or rectangular section of 4 mm minimum
            and 6 mm maximum. The maximum dimension must be not more than 3 mm from the
            end of the blade.
       3.   The end of the blade may also be formed by a solid tip which must have the same section
            as the tip which is folded over (Figure 12).
       4.   If the blade has a curve, it must be a distinct curve which must be continuous, and the
            deflection must be less than 4 cm. Blades with sharply bent extremities or which curve in
            the direction of the cutting edge are forbidden.
            The curve of the blade must be measured as follows:
                 i)   the blade is placed on a flat surface so the curve is uppermost;
                 ii) the maximum distance between the flat surface and the blade is measured: this
                     distance is deemed to be the curve of the blade (cf. Figure 13).
       5.   The sabre blade must have a flexibility equivalent to a bend of minimum 4 cm and
            maximum 7 cm measured in the following way.
            a)   The blade is fixed horizontally at a point 70 cm from the tip of the blade.
            b)   A 200 g (tolerance ± 1 g) weight is hung 1 cm from the tip.
            c)   The curve is measured at the tip of the blade between the weighted and unweighted
                 positions (see Figures 12 and 13).




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   131                             Version: November 2025
                                   Figure 12. Sabre dimensions and flexibility
     This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                             132                                       Version: November 2025
                                        Figure 13. Sabre dimensions (cont.)
     This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                             133                                       Version: November 2025
       The guard (cf. m.5)
