m.25
       The national uniform includes the socks, the knickers, and the jacket.
       Protection
       1.   The equipment and clothing must provide the competitor with the maximum protection
            compatible with the freedom of movement necessary for fencing.
       Safety
       2.   It must not be possible for the opponent to be obstructed or injured by the equipment,
            nor for the opponent’s weapon to be caught up in or deflected by the equipment which, in
            consequence, must have neither buckles nor openings in which the opponent’s point may
            be caught up—except accidentally—and thus held or deflected. The jacket and its collar
            must be completely buttoned or done up.
       Characteristics of the clothing
       3.
            a)   Fencers’ clothing must be made of sufficiently robust material and be clean and in
                 good condition.
            b)   The material from which the equipment is made must not have a surface which is
                 smooth enough to cause the point or the opponent’s touch to glance off (cf. m.30).
            c)   Jackets, under-plastrons, and knickers must be made entirely in cloth able to resist a
                 pressure of 800 Newtons. Very particular attention must be paid to the way the
                 seams under the armpits, if there are any, are made. An under-garment consisting of
                 a protective under-plastron covering the vital upper areas of the body (following the
                 design given in Appendix A to these Rules, “Safety norms for manufacturers”)
                 resistant to 800 Newtons is also mandatory.
            d)   Fencers’ clothing may be of different colors, apart from black.


       In USA Fencing local, divisional, and sectional competitions, there are no restrictions on colors or
       decorations on uniforms, providing that the uniforms still comply with all other requirements.


            e)   There shall be only one national uniform per country, with the exception that the
                 manufacturers’ marks and sponsors’ logos may be different.
            f)   Logos (national strips) worn on the national uniform must be approved by the FIE
                 Executive Committee; they are then published on the FIE Website.
            g)   For the following events, the wearing of national strips (logos) are compulsory on
                 both legs, optional on the arm(s) (cf. t.74). All the logos worn by any one fencer must
                 be identical:
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                      135                                Version: November 2025
                i)   Senior, Junior and Cadet World Championships: all bouts, whether in a pool, in
                     the direct elimination, or during a team match;
                ii) Individual Senior World Cup competitions and in Individual Senior Zonal
                    Championships: all bouts, whether in a pool or in the direct elimination;
                 iii) Teams: Senior World Cup team competitions and Senior Zonal Championships:
                      all bouts in every match.
                They must be identical for all the fencers of a same Federation for the above
                competitions i) and iii).
           h)   The name of the fencer must be displayed on the back of the jacket with the
                abbreviation of the national federation below it, at the level of the shoulder blades.
                They must be printed directly on the jacket or on a cloth entirely sewn onto the jacket.
                The letters must be in dark blue, in capitals, between 8 cm and 10 cm high, and
                between 1 cm and 1.5 cm wide, according to the length of the name.
      Jacket
      4.
           a)   In all weapons, for men and women, the lower edge of the jacket must overlap the
                knickers by at least 10 cm when the fencer is in the on-guard position (cf. m.28, m.34).
           b)   The jacket must include a lining making a double thickness of material for the sleeve
                down to the elbow of the sword arm and covering the flank up to the region of the
                armpit. In épée the fencer is required to wear a regulation jacket, which must cover
                the whole of the surface of the trunk.
           c)   In all weapons, the use of breast/chest protectors (made of metal or some rigid
                material) is compulsory for women and optional for men. In foil, this breast/chest
                protector must be worn below the protective plastron.
                In foil, the protector will have the following characteristics: The entire outside of the
                chest protector (the side facing the opponent) must be covered with a soft material
                such as E.V.A. (Ethylene-vinyl acetate) of four mm thickness and density of 22kg/
                m3. (The material can be attached to the current plastic models or incorporated into
                the manufacture of new chest protectors). The material must have the SEMI technical
                mark at the center of the upper edge.
      Knickers
      5.
           a)   The knickers must be fastened below the knees.
           b)   With knickers, the fencer must wear socks which cover the legs right up to the
                knickers. These socks must be held up in such a way that they cannot fall down.
           c)   The fencer is permitted to wear socks with a turn-over showing the colors of their
                national team 10 cm high.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  136                              Version: November 2025
       Glove
            6. In all weapons, the gauntlet of the glove must, in all circumstances, fully cover
            approximately half the forearm of the competitor’s sword arm to prevent the
            opponent’s blade entering the sleeve of the jacket.

In FIE competitions, there is an additional requirement that under no circumstances should there be any hole in
the hand of the glove, even to allow the passage of the bodycord.



       Mask
       7.
            a)   The mask must be made with meshes (space between the wires) of maximum 2.1 mm
                 and from wires with a minimum gauge of 1 mm diameter. The mask must include
                 safety strap at the rear.
            b)   Masks, in all weapons, must be made in accordance with the safety standards
                 described in Appendix A to these Rules and must carry the quality label specified in
                 those standards.


       An FIE homologated mask is not required for USA Fencing competition.


            c)   When the checks are carried out the person responsible for them may, if in doubt,
                 ensure that the mesh of the mask, both at the front and at the sides, is able to
                 withstand, without permanent deformation, the introduction into the mesh of a
                 conical instrument, the angle of the surface of the cone being at 4° to the axis and at a
                 pressure of 12 kg.
            d)   A mask which does not comply with the safety requirements laid down in this article
                 will be rendered visibly unusable by the weapon checking personnel or the Referee
                 in the presence of the person who presented the mask to the weapon check or the
                 team captain of the fencer concerned.
            e)   The bib of the mask must be made of cloth resistant to 350 Newtons.
            f)   For masks with a metallic tongue, the mask must contain a horizontal safety strap at
                 the rear of the mask, with the two ends of the strap firmly attached to the two sides of
                 the mask. This strap may be elastic or of any other material that may be approved by
                 the US SEMI Committee. For masks without a metallic tongue, the proper use of an
                 approved magnetic neck strap is mandatory.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                     137                               Version: November 2025
                                       RULES SPECIFIC TO FOIL
       Glove (cf. m.25)
