m.28
       1.   The conductive surface of the conductive over-jacket which is worn over the protective
            jacket must cover the valid target of the fencer (cf. t.77) entirely and without omission
            when in the on-guard position. The jacket must have a conductive flap, minimum 2 cm by
            3 cm, near the middle of the back, just below the collar, to which the crocodile clip from
            the mask can be attached.
       2.   Whatever the means of fastening used, the conductive material must cover a sufficient
            area to ensure that it covers the valid target in all positions of the fencer. The overlap must
            always be on the sword-arm side.
       3.   The interior of conductive jackets must be electrically insulated by a lining or by an
            adequate treatment of the conductive lamé material.
       4.   The conductive collar must have a minimum height of 3 cm and the foil conductive jacket
            must have a conductive flap, minimum 2 cm by 3 cm near the middle of the back, just
            below the collar, to which the crocodile clip from the mask can be attached.
       5.   The lamé material used must be of conductive thread in both warp and weft. As regards
            electrical conductibility it must conform to the following requirements.
            a)   The electrical resistance measured between any two points of the lamé material must
                 not be greater than 5 Ω. The resistance will be measured by using a 500 g conductive


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                     138                               Version: November 2025
                metal weight which has a hemispherical end with a radius of 4 mm. This weight,
                placed on this end and moved about on the lamé, must maintain continuous contact
                with a maximum resistance of 5 Ω.
           b)   In no circumstances must the use of a conductive jacket be allowed if it has holes in it,
                or patches of oxidation or other defects which may prevent the registration of a valid
                touch.
           c)   A conductive jacket which is considered to be unusable will be so marked with a
                very visible colored paint by an authorized armorer.
      6.   The conductive jacket must be so made that when it is laid flat there is a straight line
           between the point of junction of the lines of the groin and the two points corresponding to
           the tops of the hip bones (ilium).
      7.   The band of non-conductive material passing between the legs must be at least 3 cm wide
           (see Figure 14).
      8.   For compliance of T-shirt electric resistance with wireless manufacturer requirements -
           maximum electric resistance:
           a)   between any two points of the electrically conductive belt on the t-shirt (including
                both flaps for crocodile clip connection) should not be more than 15 Ω.
           b)   between any two points on the electrically conductive fabric-belt portion of the t-shirt
                (including both flaps for the crocodile clip connection) and any point of the
                electrically conductive fabric on the sleeves or on the neck, should not be more than
                50 Ω.
           c)   these checks must be carried out by a wireless equipment manufacturer.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  139                             Version: November 2025
                                           Figure 14. Foil: conductive jacket
  This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.
       Bodycord and attachment plugs
