m.29
       1.
             a)    The conductive wires of the bodycord (the fencers’ personal equipment) must be
                   well insulated electrically from each other, twisted or joined together, and not
                   affected by humidity.
             b)    This bodycord has a connecting plug at each end. In the absence of a security device
                   being fixed to the weapon, a security device must be fitted to the plug of the
                   bodycord.
             c)    The electrical resistance of each of these conductive wires (plug to plug and plug to
                   crocodile clip) must not exceed 1 Ω.
       2.
             a)    At the reel end the three-pin male plug, which must comply with the conditions of
                   manufacture and assembly laid down in Article m.55, will be attached to the wires in
                   the following manner:
                   —     the pin at 15 mm from the center pin to the conductive jacket;
                   —     the central pin to the wire in the weapon;
                   —
                   the pin at 20 mm from the center pin to the foil ground circuit or the conductive
                   strip.
USA Fencing Rules for Competition              140                               Version: November 2025
           b)   The wire which joins the rear connection of the bodycord to the conductive jacket by
                a crocodile clip must be separate for at least 40 cm. This wire must be soldered to the
                crocodile clip and this soldering must not be covered by any insulation or any
                material whatsoever. However, any method of fixing which presents the same
                guarantees as soldering may be used, provided it has been accepted by the SEMI
                Commission.
           c)   The crocodile clip must be robust and ensure perfect contact with the conductive
                jacket. Its width at the point of contact must be at least 10 mm; the inside of the clip
                must leave a free space at least 8 mm long by 3 mm high. It must be clipped onto the
                back of the conductive jacket on the sword-arm side.
      3.
           a)   At the end nearest the foil, inside the guard, any method of attachment is allowed
                but the method adopted must always conform to the specification laid down in
                Article m.5.
           b)   In addition, the pins of the plug must in no circumstances be able to touch the metal
                part of the guard.
           c)   The wire from the point will be protected by an insulated sheath from the place
                where it enters the guard right up to the insulated connection on the plug socket.
                Under no circumstances may the non-insulated wire extend beyond this insulated
                plug connection (cf. m.5, m.9).




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  141                              Version: November 2025
                                       RULES SPECIFIC TO ÉPÉE
       Mask
