m.34
       1.    The fencer must wear, over their jacket, a conductive jacket, the conductive surface of
             which must cover entirely and without omission the valid surface of the body above a
             horizontal line which, when the fencer is “on guard,” joins, around the fencer’s trunk, the
             tops of the two hip bones. In wireless sabre the fencer must wear a conductive t-shirt. The
             conductive part is made with a conductive fabric with maximum electrical resistance
             between any two points of electrically conductive t-shirt fabric (including both flaps for
             crocodile clip connection) should be not more than 15 Ω. These checks must be carried out
             by a wireless equipment manufacturer.
       2.    The conductive surface must cover the arms as far as the wrists. The jacket must have a
             collar which is at least 3 cm high. The jacket must have a conductive flap, minimum 2 cm
             x 3 cm in the middle of the back, just below the collar, to which the crocodile clip from the
             mask can be attached.
       3.    Whatever means of fastening is used, the conductive material must be ample enough to
             guarantee covering the valid target area in any position.
       4.    The conductive material (lamé) must satisfy the conditions laid down for testing (cf.
             m.28).
       5.    The sleeves of the conductive jacket must be fixed at the wrist by means of an elastic
             band. There must be a strap passing between the fencer’s legs to keep the jacket in place
             (see Figure 15).



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                               144                                       Version: November 2025
                                      Figure 15. Electric sabre conductive jacket
       This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.
       Bodycord and plugs
