m.42
       1.   In order to allow those carrying out the checking to fulfill their task, the organizers are
            required to make available the equipment (gauges, weights, scales, electrical measuring
            machines, etc.) and the personnel necessary to carry out the work.
       2.   The Organizing Committee must provide the FIE technical delegates responsible for
            checking the weapons and equipment with at least the following apparatus:
            a)   Two gauges allowing the lengths of blades and the depths and diameters of the
                 guards at all weapons to be measured quickly (see Figure 16).


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    147                                Version: November 2025
           b)   Devices for measuring the flexibility of blades and the resistance of the mesh of
                masks.
           c)   An electrical checking device to check quickly that the electrical resistance of the
                point is not too high, and that the bodycord and the weapon are correctly assembled.
                Devices enabling these measurements to be taken easily are, in fact, commercially
                available.
           d)   Weights of 750 g and 500 g to test the springs of the points in épée and foil, in the
                workshop and at each strip.
           e)   A device allowing the lighting stroke and residual travel of épée points to be
                accurately measured, in the workshop and at each strip.
           f)   Labels to indicate that a weapon has been checked and that it satisfies the regulation,
                or has been rejected.
           g)   In the world championships and Olympic Games, the control of blades by Foucault
                currents is mandatory.
           h)   The organizers must provide a special stamp to be affixed to each conductive jacket
                to enable the referees to verify that its resistance in ohms has been checked by the
                technical delegates of the FIE. Nevertheless, this compulsory checking mark is not
                sufficient to justify the use of the jacket. In effect, it is the task of the Referee to check,
                before each event, that the conductive jacket, having been checked and marked,
                entirely covers the valid target area, and accordingly to make the final decision
                whether it may be used.
           i)   A special ink or paint must be provided to mark the guards, blades and points of
                weapons which have been checked. Nevertheless, those responsible may use other
                methods to mark the weapons and conductive jackets. m.43
      1.   To carry out the checks properly and rapidly, “workshop” teams of three people should
           be used. (At least three such workshops should be provided.)
      2.   The first person checks that all the weapons are normal with respect to their dimensions
           by passing them through a gauge.
      3.   The second does all electrical tests.
      4.   The third affixes the checking marks and replaces the weapons in the fencing bag.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    148                                 Version: November 2025
                                     Figure 16. Gauge for checking weapons
     This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                             149                                       Version: November 2025
                                               Part II

              Fitting and Material Provided by the Organizers

       Introduction
