m.5
      1.   The convex face of the guard must have a shape and surface which is both smooth and
           not too bright. It must be so made that it can neither hold nor catch the opponent’s point.
           It must not have a raised rim.
      2.
           a)   For foil and épée, inside the guard there must be a cushion (padding) sufficiently
                wide to protect the electric wires from the fencer’s fingers. The padding on the inside
                of the guard must be less than 2 cm thick and must be arranged in such a way as not
                to increase the protection which the guard affords the hand.
           b)   The connections must be so arranged that it is impossible for the fencer to break or
                make contacts while fencing.
           c)   On foils, the wire must be protected by an insulating sheath.
           d)   On épées, the two wires must be protected by two insulating sheaths, one on each
                wire.
           e)   Both the wire and the insulating sheath must go right up to the socket.
           f)   In no case may uninsulated wires project beyond the point where they are attached
                to the socket (cf. m.29, m.31).
      3.   Any system of attachment inside the guard is allowed, provided that it conforms to the
           following requirements.
           a)   It must be easy to detach or attach the bodycord.
           b)   It must be possible to check it by a simple method such as using a penknife or a coin.
           c)   It must be easy to apply the pointe d’arrêt of the opponent’s weapon to the ground
                circuit connected to the blade.
           d)   It must have a security device which makes it impossible for the contact to be broken
                during the bout. In the absence of a security device being fitted to the weapon, a
                security device must be fitted to the plug of the bodycord.
           e)   It must ensure the complete connection of the electric wires; it must be impossible for
                even a momentary break of contact to occur while the plugs are connected.
           f)   It must not include any part which allows electrical contact to be made between the
                plug sockets.
      4.
           a)   The maximum electrical resistance allowed for foil and épée is 2 Ω.
           b)   Those who wish to assemble electric weapons, but who are not equipped to
                undertake electrical tests, are advised that the limits for the electrical resistance for
                the circuits laid down for each weapon have been fixed so that they can be attained
                by anyone who is reasonably careful.
           c)   They are advised:


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   120                               Version: November 2025
                i)   thoroughly to de-oxidize the external surface of the guard and the connecting
                     surfaces inside it;
                ii) not to damage the insulation of the wires, especially where they pass along
                    the groove in the blade at the point and at the guard; iii) to avoid
                    accumulations of glue in the groove of the blade.
      Equipment and Checking of Weapons
      5.
           a)   In foil and épée, only traditional or homologated pointes d’arrêt are accepted. No
                other kind of pointe d’arrêt, notably new ones that are not homologated, will be
                accepted at the weapon control.
                In order to make the identification easier, please note that a traditional pointe d’arrêt
                has two screws to fix the tip of the pointe d’arrêt to the base, the whole is in metal
                and there is no plastic in the base.
                To make the checking of weapons easier and allow the complete observation of the
                tip and its base, foil fencers are requested to present their foils at the weapon control
                with bare points not covered with adhesive tape over the first 15 cm.


      In USA Fencing competitions, there is no requirement that the pointe d’arrêt must be homologated.


           b)   In order that the registering of hits by the contact of the point on the opponent be
                correctly registered by the scoring device, the pointes d’arrêt must be clean. The
                electrical resistance measured in ohms must not exceed the limit of 2 ohms (m.5.4.a).
           c)   The blades and the guards in épée, foil and sabre must be totally of metal. Apart from
                in sabre where the part of the guard next to the pommel is insulated (insulating
                sheath), their exteriors must not be covered by any material (plastic or other).
                The guard may not feature any advertising. This is also the case for the insulated part
                of the sabre guard.
           d)   Any fencer or other person who tries to register touches in a way that does not
                comply with the rules, either with the weapon or by manipulating the scoring device,
                will be excluded from the competition or from the competition zone and, after
                identification, will be liable to further penalty.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   121                               Version: November 2025
                                                 FOIL
      Weight
