m.51
       1.   A touch made on the conductive strip or on the metallic parts of the weapon must not be
            registered by the apparatus, nor may it prevent the registering of a touch made
            simultaneously by the opponent. In foil, a touch made on a part of the foil may register if
            an uninsulated part of the weapon of the fencer is in contact with their conductive jacket.
       2.   The apparatus must not have any device whereby anyone other than the person detailed
            to supervise it can interrupt its working during a bout.
       3.   Touches are registered by visual signals. The signal lamps must be placed on the top of
            the apparatus, in order that they may be visible to the Referee, the competitors and the
            superintendent of the apparatus. They must be so positioned that they show clearly from
            which side the touch was made. Arrangements must be made so that extension lamps can
            be added to the exterior of the apparatus, in order to increase the visibility of the signals.
       4.   Once the signal lamps are alight, they must so remain until the apparatus is reset, without
            their having any tendency to go out or flicker either when subsequent touches are made
            or if the apparatus is subjected to vibrations.
       5.   The visual signals must be accompanied by audible signals (cf. Appendix B).
       6.   The resetting switches must be placed either on top of or on the front part of the
            apparatus.
       7.
            a)   For official competitions of the FIE (cf. t.1), the source of power must always be
                 secured through external batteries or UPS (uninterruptible power supply) in order
                 not to interrupt the load during the match if any interruption occurs in the normal
                 electricity supply. The wiring of the apparatus to be powered in this way must be
                 designed so that it is impossible for the apparatus to become connected by mistake
                 directly to the mains supply.
            b)   All fencing salles, clubs, etc., and the organizers of training sessions or competitions
                 involving weapons using electrical equipment, may use the current supplied by the
                 mains on condition that they adhere strictly to the technical standards laid down on
                 the subject by their countries and international communities.
       8.
            a)   If the clock is not incorporated in the electrical judging apparatus, the apparatus
                 must have a system for linking in an external clock. This clock must be powered by
                 electricity from a 12 volt battery. A disconnection of the wiring which links the clock
                 to the apparatus must cause, simultaneously, the blocking of the apparatus which
                 registers touches, in a manner which preserves what it has registered up to that point,
                 and the stopping of the clock.
            b)   To allow the apparatus to be used when it is not connected to the clock, there must
                 be a switch in the interior of the apparatus which can change its operating mode (cf.
                 t.32, m.44).
       9. For the finals of official competitions of the FIE, the clock must be equipped with a
          system which connects it to some external extension clocks displaying large luminous
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                 152                              Version: November 2025
            numbers, and with another system for the connection of the audible signal. These two
            connection systems must be separated from the circuits situated inside the central
            judging apparatus by means of opto-couplers (cf. t.32, m.44).
       10. When the cable connecting the audible-signal apparatus to the clock is disconnected, the
           audible-signal apparatus must emit a sound of between 80 and 100 decibels (measured at
           the center line of the strip) lasting between 2 and 3 seconds, but the central judging
           apparatus must not be blocked and the clock must not be stopped (cf. t.32, m.44, m.51.9).
       Number and quality of judging apparatus
