m.57
       1.    The conductive strip must be made from metal, metallic mesh or some substance that is
             conductive. The resistance of the strip, from one end to the other, must not exceed 5 Ω.
       2.    The conductive strip must cover the whole of the length and breadth of the strip including
             its extensions, in order to neutralize floor touches.
       3.
             a)    When the strip is mounted on a platform the conductive surface must cover the
                   whole width of the platform.
             b)    The platform must not exceed 50 cm in height, and must be wider than the fencing
                   strip itself by at least 25 cm on each side. Each end of the podium must be equipped
                   with a gentle slope right down to ground level.
       4.    Because the amount of wire which the reels can carry is limited, the conductive strip is
             designed for use on a strip 14 m long; an extension of 1.5–2 m is added at each end of the
             strip to allow the fencer crossing the rear limits of the strip to retire on an even and
             unvarying surface. The conductive strip must therefore have a length of 17–18 m.
       5.
            a)    It is preferable to lay the conductive strip on a wooden base with some flexible
                  material between. It must be provided with some device which enables it to be kept
                  well stretched.
            b)    The wooden bases are 12–15 cm above ground level. Their sides must not be sloping.
            c)    It is preferable to have a metal strip, screwed down if possible, which will keep down
                  the edges of the conductive strip along the entire length of the base on both sides.
            d)    Strips made of metallic mesh must never be placed directly on a floor of reinforced
                  concrete or tiles.
       6.    The paint used to draw the lines on the conductive strip must not prevent its electrical
             conductibility, so that a touch made on it at a point where a line occurs is also neutralized.
       7.    The organizers must have equipment for the immediate repair of the strip available on the
             spot.
       8.    There must be no roller or any sort of obstacle at the ends of the conductive strips which
             could prevent the fencers from retreating normally.
       9.    Strips used in the World Championships and in the Olympic Games must be tested before
             competition by SEMI Commission Delegates using the Slip-Meter.
       10. The specifications of the Slip-Meter must fulfill the specifications defined in the
           homologation manual.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    156                              Version: November 2025
                                             Chapter 4
                               Source of Electrical Current
