m.8
      1.   The blade, which is rectangular in section, must be made of steel complying with the
           safety standards described in Appendix A to the Rules.
      2.   The edges must be smoothed off so that they will not cut, and must be chamfered at an
           angle of 45° (± 5°), 0.5 mm on each side (± 0.1 mm), so that they will neither cut nor
           become capable of cutting.
      3.   The blade is mounted with the widest face placed horizontally.
      4.   The maximum length of the blade is 90 cm (cf. m.3).
      5.   The blade should have a flexibility equivalent to a bend of minimum 5.5 cm and
           maximum 9.5 cm measured in the following way.
           a)   The blade is fixed horizontally at a point 70 cm from the extremity of the point.
           b)   A 200 g weight (tolerance ± 1 g) is suspended 3 cm from the extremity of the point.
           c)   The bend of the blade is measured at the extremity of the point between the non-
                weighted and weighted positions (see Figure 8).
           d)   The groove in the blade must be uppermost.
      6.   The blade should be as straight as possible. Any curve of the blade must be uniform and
           the maximum bend must in any case be less than 1 cm; it is only permitted in the vertical
           plane and must be near the center of the blade.
           The curve of the blade must be measured as follows:
                i)   the blade is placed on a flat surface so the curve is uppermost;
                ii) the maximum distance between the flat surface and the blade is measured: this
                    distance is deemed to be the curve of the blade (cf. Figure 8).




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  122                             Version: November 2025
                                     Figure 8. Foil dimensions and flexibility
     This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt, the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                             123                                       Version: November 2025
       The guard (cf. m.5)
