o.107
        1.   Doping is forbidden by the FIE. Any breaking of this rule will incur disciplinary action.
        2.   Doping is defined as the occurrence of one or more of the anti-doping rule violations set
             forth in Articles 2.1 to 2.8 of the FIE Anti-Doping Rules.
        3.   The FIE has committed itself to the WADA Anti-Doping Code. The FIE Anti-Doping Rules
             are based on the WADA ‘Models of Best Practice’ and adopt in their entirety the
             ‘mandatory clauses’ of the above document. The FIE also adopts in full the WADA
             ‘Prohibited Classes of Substances and Prohibited Methods’ document.
        4.   The FIE reserves the right to conduct doping control during competitions — that is, at any
             competition organized under its control — as well as out-of-competition.
        5.   The athletes who participate in FIE competitions undertake to respect the FIE anti-doping
             Rules, to use neither prohibited substances nor prohibited methods and to agree to submit
             to any anti-doping control, whether in- or out-of-competition;
        6.   All the details concerning the doping controls at official FIE competitions, as well as out-
             of-competition, are to be found in the articles of the Anti-Doping Rules of the FIE.
        7.   The penalties and consequences of the penalties arising from violations of the anti-doping
             rules are those laid down in the Anti-Doping-Rules of the FIE.
        8.   Fencers found to have contravened these anti-doping rules will be subject to the
             procedures provided for in the Anti-Doping Rules. The publication of test results and
             decisions relating to application of penalties will be announced by the Central Office of
             the FIE, which alone has the right to bring them to the notice of all member federations.
        9.   Doping offences committed and penalized in any of the member countries of the FIE will
             be taken into account and the penalties (‘sanctions’) will be applied by all member
             countries of the FIE.
        10. Modification of the FIE Anti-Doping Rules falls within the competence of the Executive
            Committee.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    107                              Version: November 2025
        PART D: PROCEDURES AFTER THE COMPETITIONS

                                               Chapter 1
                                                Ranking
        Official FIE Individual Ranking
