o.108
        1.   Principles
        a)   The official Senior ranking of the FIE takes into account the best five results of the World
             Cup, Grand Prix or Satellite competitions in which the fencer has participated, irrespective
             of continent, plus the World Championships or Olympic Games and the Zonal
             Championships.
        b) The official Junior ranking of the FIE takes into account the best six results of the World
           Cup competitions in which the fencer has participated, irrespective of continent, as well as
           the World Championships and the Zonal Championships.
        c)   For both Senior and Junior rankings, the ranking is kept permanently up to date.
             The first Grand Prix event of the current year cancels out the first Grand Prix event of the
             previous year, and so forth for the remainder of the Grand Prix events.
             The first World Cup event (individual and team) of the current year cancels out the first
             World Cup event (individual and team) of the previous year, and so forth for the
             remainder of the World Cups in a year.
             The first satellite competition of the current year cancels out the first satellite competition
             of the previous year and so forth for the other satellite competitions.
             The points allocated for a competition cancel out the points attributed to the
             corresponding competition in the previous season.
             If a competition does not take place in the current season, the points obtained at the
             same competition in the previous season are deleted on the anniversary of the
             competition.
        d) In the event of equal points, the ranking is based on who has gained the most 1 st places,
           then 2nd places, etc.
             If there is a complete tie, the fencers are ranked equal.
        e)   After each competition which is taken into account to establish the ranking, this is
             updated automatically after verification of the results by the FIE.
        f)   Except where special rules apply, the official up-to-date FIE ranking is the deciding factor
             for all rankings, seedings, exemptions, etc.
        2.   Scale of points
             a)   The ranking of Seniors and Juniors is based on the following points system:


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                     108                               Version: November 2025
              1st place:                                    32 points
              2nd place:                                    26 points
              3rd place ex aequo:                           20 points
              5th – 8th places:                             14 points
              9th – 16th places:                            8 points
              17th – 32nd places:                           4 points
              33rd – 64th places:                           2 points
              65th – 96th places                            1 point
              97th – 128th places:                          0.5 point
              129th – 256th places:                         0.25 point


             b)   Points obtained in an individual A Grade World Cup competition are multiplied by
                  a factor of 1.
             c)   Points obtained in a Grand Prix competition of the FIE and a Zonal Championship
                  are multiplied by a factor of 1.5.
             d)   Points obtained in the individual events of the Open World and in the Junior World
                  Championships are multiplied by a factor of 2.5.
             e)   Points obtained in the individual events of the Olympic Games are multiplied by a
                  factor of 3.0. At the Olympic Games, fourth place is awarded 54 points.
             f)   Under all circumstances, only fencers who have actually participated in a direct
                  elimination table can receive any points.
        3.   Honors
             The winner (first ranked fencer) of each senior official ranking of the FIE will be
             announced at the end of the Senior World Championships or Olympic Games.
             The winner (first ranked fencer) of each junior official ranking will be announced at the
             end of the Junior World Championships.
