o.117
1 The entry of the names of the fencers and all possible replacements, and the entry of teams, must be
made via the FIE website 7 days before the competition at the latest (midnight Lausanne time).
For team entries, the names of the fencers making up the teams may be changed, by informing the
organizers, up to the day before the competition, not later than 4.00 pm (local time).
However, a replacement can be made after this stage, and at the latest at the end of the individual
event, in the case of injury or other medical reason duly certified by the competition medical doctor.
2 Withdrawal of a fencer or team.
After the closing deadline for entries, no named fencer or team may be withdrawn except for injury
or other medical reason or force majeure: the national federation must inform the FIE and the
organizers.
3 Substitution of a fencer.
Until the Wednesday preceding the competition (midnight, Lausanne time), a fencer may be replaced
by another. To do this, the national federation must send to the FIE, by fax or e-mail, a written
request to substitute the fencer.
4 Addition of a fencer or a team after the deadline.
From the Wednesday preceding the competition until 12 noon (local time) on the day preceding the
competition, one or more fencers and/or a team may be added by national federations after payment
to the FIE of a penalty according to the scale in force (cf o.31, table of financial penalties and fines).
5 Should a fencer or team who have been entered not present themselves to fence, a fine (cf o.31, table
of financial penalties and fines), payable to the FIE, will be imposed to the federation of the faulty
fencer or team, except in cases of properly authenticated ‘force majeure’.
6 The organisers of all official competitions must, at risk of a penalty of a fine payable to the FIE (cf
o.31, table of financial penalties and fines), refuse any entry of either fencer or referee not in
possession of an FIE license valid for the current season.

                 PROCEDURES DURING COMPETITIONS
        Composition of the pools for the individual Veterans championships
