o.119
1 Participation
Each country may enter one team per category (Veterans and Grand Veterans) per gender and per
weapon, thus giving a total of twelve competitions. The teams shall be composed of fencers who
participated in the individual competition of the corresponding weapon.
2 The rules for team competitions are applicable with the following exceptions:
Veterans: teams of three composed of fencers belonging to either age group 40-49 or to age group 50-
59, with at least one fencer belonging to age group 50-59, plus up to two reserves.
Grand Veterans: teams of three composed of fencers belonging to either age group 60-69 or to age
group 70 and over, with at least one fencer belonging to age group 70 and over, plus up to two
reserves.
Fencing mode is 45 hits relay described in o.99 with application of non-combativity rule at any match.
a) In the case of a team being short of a fencer in any of the weapons, the team may use a fencer who
has competed in the individual championships at another weapon or who is registered but has yet to
compete, but his/her ranking will be deemed to be last in the individual competition at the weapon
of the team in which he is going to fence plus 1.
b) The teams are placed in the direct elimination table according to the ranking of the two best fencers
in each category in the individual championship, registered for the team event. In the table 16 the
losers are placed in table B with direct elimination, losers from the table of 8 are placed in table C
with direct elimination (Annexe B) Teams are ranked, within each round of the table, according to
their initial place in the table. The losers of the semifinals will fight for the 3rd place. All the fencers
registered for the team event must be present at the piste before the start of each match.
c) Each team may request, before a given relay, the substitution of a fencer. However, in case of injury
or other medical reason, duly recognized by the medical delegate, the substitution can be immediate,
even during the relay.
There can be up to two substitutions of reserves per match but must maintain compliance with the
age category representation requirement.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   116                               Version: November 2025
                                       Book 3

                                    Material Rules




USA Fencing Rules for Competition         117        Version: November 2025
                                                Part I

                         Fencers’ Weapons and Equipment

                                            Chapter 1
                                             Weapons
      Characteristics Common to All Weapons
