o.15
       1.   Apart from the specific areas of competence which are the responsibility of the other FIE
            technical delegates specified hereafter, the technical management of official FIE
            competitions is entrusted to a Bout Committee.
       2.   The members of the Bout Committee and the other official delegates of the FIE cannot act
            in any other capacity at the competition, such as team captain, official delegate of their
            federation, referee, competitor, etc.
       3.   The Bout Committee and the official delegates of the FIE must always attend events from
            beginning to end, so as to solve any problem which could arise and thus ensure that the
            event continues to run smoothly.
       4.   All decisions of the Bout Committee and the official delegates of the FIE must be
            displayed sufficiently in advance on a clearly visible notice board to be consulted by the
            fencers and officials. In principle, fencers and officials are kept informed by their heads
            of delegation or captains, and they may not make any complaints against changes in the
            timetable or any other matter about which information has been displayed within the
            stipulated time limits.
       5.   The day before an individual or team competition, the DT must download the entry file,
            the day before the competition, from 12:00 noon local time from the FIE website.
             a    In individual competitions, the DT must publish and send to the FIE the pools and
                  the relevant schedules, as well as the list of exempt fencers for senior competitions,
                  no later than 4:00 p.m. (local time). No addition may be made to pools already
                  published unless they come from pools starting at the same time (cf. o.67.1).
             b    In team competitions, the DT must publish and send to the FIE the table and the
                  relevant schedules no later than one hour after the end of the quarter finals of the
                  individual event. No addition may be made to the published list.
       Nomination of the Bout Committee
