o.27
       The organizing committee must appoint:
       1.   Scorers and timekeepers
            The organizers will appoint, on their own responsibility, scorers whose duty it will be to
            keep the scoresheet for the bout, the pool or the match and maintain the scoreboards, and
            a timekeeper whose duty it will be to keep time for the duration of the bouts (cf. t.37ss).
            For finals, the Bout Committee may appoint a delegate or a Referee, neutral wherever
            possible, to supervise the timekeeper, the scorer and the person responsible for the
            scoring apparatus.
       2.   The Organizing Committee must choose qualified persons, who pay careful attention to
            the signals given by the apparatus in order that they may be able to advise the Referee as
            to what the apparatus has registered, and warn him, even during the course of a bout, as
            to any abnormal phenomena which may occur.
       3.   Experts


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  77                               Version: November 2025
            a)   For each tournament, the Organizing Committee must appoint experts in matters
                 relating to the electrical apparatus. These experts are placed under the supervision of
                 the Bout Committee.
            b)   The experts may be consulted, separately or conjointly, by the referees or by the Bout
                 Committee regarding all questions relating to the electrical apparatus.
            c)   Members of the Committee for Electrical Apparatus and Equipment of the FIE
                 (SEMI) who are present are ex officio qualified to act as experts.
       4.   Technicians
            For each tournament, the Organizing Committee must ensure the presence of competent
            technicians to remedy faults in the electrical apparatus and, possibly, in the personal
            electrical equipment of the fencers.
       Checking of equipment
