o.4
      A competition can only be classed or kept as a World Cup competition if it satisfies the
      following criteria.
      1.   Participation must include fencers:
           •     from at least eight countries, for senior competitions in Europe;
           •     from at least five countries, for senior competitions outside Europe;
           •     from at least five countries, for junior competitions.
      2.   Participation must include a minimum of ten fencers listed in the top 32 in the official
           ranking of the FIE and representing at least five different countries for senior
           competitions in Europe (no requirement for competitions outside Europe).

USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   69                               Version: November 2025
      3.   The competition must be attended by at least four FIE A or B Grade referees of different
           nationalities.
      4.   The Rules of the FIE must be faithfully applied, as well as the specification for World Cup
           competitions. The organizers must use automatic judging equipment of which the
           prototype has been approved by the SEMI.
      5.   The finals must take place in a hall in which there is space allocated to the public.
      6.   There must be a sufficient number of strips to allow the first round to take place in no
           more than two series of pools.
      7.   During the finals, the organizers must display signs on the strip indicating the names and
           nationalities of the fencers.
      8.   For the presentation of the prizes, the protocol rules of the FIE must be applied (cf. FIE
           Administrative Rules).
      9.   There must be a medical doctor present on the premises of the competition for the whole
           duration of the competition.
      10. There must be an anti-doping test conforming to the regulations of the FIE (cf. o.107 and
          the FIE Anti-Doping Rules).




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                  70                               Version: November 2025
                                               Chapter 2
                                                Glossary
      Assaults and bouts
