o.53

       1.   Three months before the start of the World Championships, the federations will receive
            an entry form from the Organizing Committee, on which they are required to specify the
            number of fencers and teams participating in each event of the competition’s program,
            two months before the start of the events.

       2.   The entry of fencers and teams by name is to be made via the FIE website. This entry of
            the names of the fencers and all possible substitutes, and the entry of teams, must be
            made:

            —   fifteen days (by midnight, Lausanne time) before the first event of the World
                Championships at the latest.

            —   seven days (by midnight, Lausanne time) before the first event of the Zonal
                Championships at the latest.

       3.   Withdrawal of a fencer

            After the cut-off date for entries, there can be no further withdrawal of a name except
            in any case of force majeure duly justified.

            Should a fencer or team who have been entered not present themselves to fence, their
            federation will be penalized by a fine (cf. o.31, table of financial penalties and fines),
            payable to the FIE, except in cases of properly authenticated “force majeure.”

       4.   Addition of fencer(s) after the cut-off date

            Nevertheless one or more fencers may be added, up until 10:00 am (local time in the town
            hosting the World or Zonal Championships) on the day before the competition, after
            payment to the FIE of a penalty (cf. o.31, table of financial penalties and fines) per
            additional entry. To do this the national federation must address a request to the FIE to
            add a fencer or fencers, together with immediate payment of the penalty.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   87                               Version: November 2025
       5.   Changes of names, only with the agreement of the FIE, can only be made at the latest up
            to 24 hours before the start of each event.
