o.61
       1.   The entry of the names of the fencers and all possible replacements, and the entry of
            teams, must be made via the FIE website 7 days before the competition at the latest
            (midnight Lausanne time).
            For team entries, the names of the fencers making up the teams may be changed, by
            informing the organizers, until the day before the competition, at the latest at the end of
            the quarterfinals of the individual competition. However, a replacement can be made at
            this stage, and at the latest at the end of the individual event, in the case of injury or
            illness duly certified by the official competition medical doctor.
       2.   Withdrawal of a fencer or team
            After the closing deadline for entries, no named fencer or team may be withdrawn, except
            for reasons of injury or force majeure: the national federation must inform the FIE and the
            organizers.
       3.   Substitution of a fencer
            Until the Wednesday preceding the competition (midnight Lausanne time), a fencer may
            be replaced by another. To do this, the national federation must send to the FIE, by fax or
            email, a written request to substitute the fencer.
       4.   Addition of a fencer or a team after the deadline

USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   88                              Version: November 2025
       a)   However, until the Tuesday preceding the competition (midnight Lausanne time), one or
            more fencers and/or a team may be added by their national federation after payment to
            the FIE of a penalty (cf. o.31, table of financial penalties and fines) for each additional
            entry.
            To do this, the national federation must send to the FIE (by fax or email) a request for the
            additional fencer(s) and/or team and a written commitment to pay the penalty within 15
            days.
       b) From the Wednesday preceding the competition and until 12 noon (local time) the day
          preceding the competition, one or more fencers and/or a team may be added by national
          federations after payment to the FIE of a higher penalty (cf. article o.31, table of financial
          penalties and fines) for each additional fencer.
            To do this, the national federation must send to the FIE (by fax or e-mail) a request for the
            additional fencer(s) and/or team and a written commitment to pay the penalty within 15
            days.
       5.   Should a fencer or team who have been entered not present themselves to fence, their
            federation will be penalized with a fine (cf. o.31, table of financial penalties and fines),
            payable to the FIE, except in cases of properly authenticated “force majeure.”
       6.   The organizers of all official competitions must, at risk of a penalty of a fine payable to the
            FIE (cf. o.31, table of financial penalties and fines), refuse the entry of any fencers not
            appearing on lists conforming with the above, any entry not requested by a federation
            and any entry of either fencer or Referee not in possession of an FIE license valid for the
            current season.
