o.99
       The formula for the competition is as follows.
       1.   The relay formula applies to all weapons.
       2.   The three fencers of one team fence the three fencers of the opposing team (9 relay bouts).
       3.   The bouts of each match have to be fought in the following order:
                                         3-6                    2-5
                                         1-5                    1-4
                                         2-4                    2-6
                                         1-6                    3-5
                                         3-4
            If this order is altered, intentionally or unintentionally, all the touches scored since the
            modification are annulled and the match is resumed in the correct order.
       4.   The position of each team on the match scoresheet is decided by drawing lots. The order
            of the individual fencers is decided by the team captains.
       5.
            a)   In the course of a match the captain of a team may ask to substitute for a fencer the
                 reserve nominated before the start of the match. This substitution may only be made
                 at the end of a bout. However, the fencer who has been replaced may fence one more
                 time during that match, but only to replace the fencer who originally substituted for
                 him. This second replacement is not allowed if the first replacement has been made
                 for the reasons listed in article o.99.6. No further substitution is allowed, even in the
                 case of an accident or unavoidable circumstances. The announcement that a fencer is
                 to be substituted, must be made at the latest before the beginning of the bout
                 preceding the next bout of the fencer to be replaced and must be reported by the
                 Referee to the opposing team captain. At the World Championships and the Olympic
                 Games, the Referee must also report this immediately to the Bout Committee.
            b)   If an accident occurs in the bout which follows the request for a substitution, the
                 team captain may annul that request.


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    102                              Version: November 2025
              c)   If the captain of the opposing team has also requested a substitution, this substitution
                   may be implemented or cancelled.
        6.
              a)   If a member of a team is obliged to retire during a match as the result of an accident
                   which has been duly recognized by a medical representative of the FIE, the captain of
                   their team may ask to put in a reserve to continue the match at the point where the
                   competitor who was obliged to retire withdrew, even during a bout in progress.
              b)   However, a competitor who is thus replaced cannot again take their place in the
                   team during the same match.
        7.
              a) If both a fencer and the reserve, if any, are forced to withdraw, and the team is
                 therefore incomplete, it has lost the match and must withdraw from the competition.
                 The team retains its place in the final ranking.
              b) If a fencer is excluded during a team match, his/her team has lost the match and the
                 team is excluded from the competition without any final ranking. Cf. t.160
        8.   When for any reason whatever a team does not complete an event in which it is taking
             part, the Bout Committee will apply the rules laid down for a competitor who does not
             complete an event in an individual competition, each team being considered in its
             entirety as being a single competitor.
        9.   When a team fails to appear against another team it is considered:
             a. as not completing the event in which it is taking part, if it has already fenced against
                another team (cf. o.79);
             b. as not competing at all in the event, if it is its first match.
        10. A 10-minute rest must always be given between two matches of the same team.
        B. Senior and Junior Team World Cups and Zonal Championships
