t.106
        In applying these basic conventions of sabre fencing, the Referee should judge as follows:
        1.   When during a phrase both fencers touch at the same time there is either a simultaneous
             action or a double touch:
             The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by
             both fencers; in this case the touches exchanged are annulled for both fencers.
        2.   The double touch (coup double) on the other hand, is the result of a clearly faulty action
             on the part of one of the fencers.
             Therefore, when there is not an interval of fencing time between the touches:
        3.   The fencer who is attacked is alone counted as touched:
          a) If the fencer makes a stop hit on their opponent’s simple attack;
USA Fencing Rules for Competition               44                             Version: November 2025
           b)   If, instead of parrying, attempts to avoid the touch and does not succeed in so
                doing;
           c)   If, after making a successful parry, makes a momentary pause (delayed riposte)
                which gives their opponent the right to renew the attack (redoublement, or remise or
                reprise);
           d)   If, during a compound attack, makes a stop hit without being in time;
           e)   If, having their point in line (cf. t.15) and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the
                blade (prise de fer) which deflects their blade, attacks or places their point in line
                again instead of parrying a direct touch made by the opponent.
      4.   The fencer who attacks is alone counted as touched:
           a)   If the fencer initiated an attack when the opponent had their point in line (cf. t.15)
                and without deflecting the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere
                grazing of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade;
           b)   If the fencer attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (because of a dérobement)
                and continues the attack;
           c)   If, during a compound attack, the opponent finds the blade, but the fencer continues
                the attack and the opponent ripostes immediately;
           d)   If, during a compound attack, the fencer bends their arm or makes a momentary
                pause, during which time the opponent makes a stop hit or an attack while the
                attacker continues their own attack.
           e)   If, during a compound attack, the fencer is stop hit one period of fencing time (temps
                d’escrime) before beginning the final movement.
           f)   If the fencer makes a touch by a remise, redoublement or reprise following a parry by
                their opponent which has been followed by a riposte which is immediate, simple and
                executed in one period of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.
      5.   When there is a double touch, and if the Referee is unable clearly to judge from which side
           the fault has come, the Referee must replace the competitors on guard.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   45                                Version: November 2025
                        Disciplinary Rules for Competitions

                                              Chapter 1

                                            Application

        Persons Subject to these Rules
