t.124

        There is unwillingness to fight when there is one minute of fencing without a hit or without a
        hit scored off the target. In the event of unwillingness to fight, the Referee will immediately
        call “Halt!” as a decision of “fact” (cf. t.136.2).

        1. Individual events - Direct Elimination

              P-yellow and P-red cards are awarded to both fencers simultaneously, starting with a P-
              yellow card, followed by a P-red card. The P-black card is awarded as described in 1c)
              below.

              a) When, for the first time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee
              sanctions both fencers with a P-yellow card.

              b) When, for the second time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee
              sanctions both fencers with a P-Red card.

               c) When, for the third time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, a P-black card is
               awarded as follows:
             i.    If the scores of the two fencers are equal, the referee sanctions the fencer with the
                   lower initial seeding in the competition with a P-black card. The fencer with the
                   higher initial seeding in the competition wins the bout.
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                      49                               Version: November 2025
        ii.     If the scores of the two fencers are not equal, the referee sanctions the fencer with
                the lower score with a P-black card. The fencer with the higher score wins the bout.

      2. Team events

          P-yellow and P-red cards are awarded to the two teams simultaneously, starting with a P-
          yellow card and followed by a P-red card. The P-black card is awarded as described in 2c
          below.

          a) When, for the first time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee
          sanctions both teams with a P-yellow card.

          b) When, for the second time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee
          sanctions one or both teams with a P-Red card.

          c) When, for the third time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, a P-black card is
          awarded as follows:

         i.      If the scores for the two teams are equal, the referee sanctions the team with the
                 lower initial seeding in the competition with a P-black card. The team with the
                 higher initial seeding in the competition wins the match.
        ii.      If the scores of the two teams are not equal, the referee sanctions the team with the
                 lower score with a P-black card. The team with the higher score wins the match.


      3. In Both Individual and Team Events

          a.    The P-yellow (warning), P-red (penalty hit) and P-black (the possible losing of a
                bout or match) cards received during any one bout or match (during all 9 relays)
                are valid only for that bout or match. They are not transferable to the following
                bout or match.

                No P-card (yellow, red or black) may be awarded in individual competitions at 14-
                14 or in team matches at 44-44.

      In USA Fencing competitions, no P-card (yellow, red, or black) may be awarded in individual
      competitions at 9-9 in 10 touch bouts



          b.    In both individual and team competitions, fencers and teams who have lost the
                bout/match following the award of a P-black card will be ranked in the final
                results of the competition as having lost the bout/match. They receive the
                corresponding points.
          c.    In both individual and team competitions, the period/relay continues after the
                awarding of a P-yellow or a P-red card.

USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   50                               Version: November 2025
             d.     The minute starts again after each hit, each hit off the target, each hit annulled, each
                    penalty hit, and at the beginning of each period or relay.
             e.     The referee must record these P-yellow, P-red and P-black cards separately on the
                    score sheet. The sanctions awarded for unwillingness to fight are not cumulative
                    with any other sanction awarded.
             f.     In both individual and team competitions, if, at the end of the regulation time,
                    there is equality of scores, article t.124 does not apply and articles t.40.3 and t.41.5
                    will apply.
