t.22
       1.   The fencer whose number is called first should place themself on the right of the Referee,
            except in the case of a bout between a right- and a left-hander, if the left-hander is called
            first.
       2.   The team which has the greater number of right-handed fencers should be placed on the
            referee’s right. If both teams have the same number of right- and left-handed fencers, the
            team called first should be placed on the referee’s right.
       3.   The Referee places each of the two competitors in such a way that the front foot of each is
            immediately behind the “on-guard” lines).
       4.   Competitors are always put on guard, whether at the beginning of the bout or
            subsequently, in the center of the width of the strip.
       5.   When placed on guard during the bout, the distance between the two competitors must be
            such that, in the point in line position, the points of the two blades cannot make contact.
       6.   After the scoring of a valid touch the competitors are put on guard in the middle of the
            strip.
       7.   If no touch is awarded they are replaced in the position that they occupied when the bout
            was interrupted.
       8.   At the beginning of each period (in a direct elimination bout) and of any additional
            minute of fencing time, the fencers are placed on guard in the middle of the strip.

USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   11                              Version: November 2025
            The competitors may not be replaced on guard, at their correct distance, in such a way as
            to place behind the rear line of the strip a fencer who was in front of that line when the
            bout was halted. If a fencer already had one foot behind the rear line, the fencer remains in
            that position.
       9.   If a fencer crosses the lateral boundaries of the strip, with one or both feet, the fencer
            must be placed on guard at the correct distance, even if this means that the fencer is
            placed behind the rear line and thus causes a touch to be awarded against themself (cf.
            t.28, t.102).
       10. Competitors come on guard when the Referee gives the order “On guard,” after which the
           Referee asks, “Are you ready?” On receiving an affirmative reply, or in the absence of a
           negative reply, the Referee gives the command for fencing to commence with the word
           “Fence.”
       11. The fencers must come on guard correctly and remain completely still until the command
           “Fence” is given by the Referee.
       12. In foil and sabre, fencers may not come on guard in the “in line” position.
       Beginning, stopping and restarting the bout
