t.38
       In the pools a bout ends when:
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   15                               Version: November 2025
       1.   One of the fencers has scored 5 touches.
            a)   In this case the score registered on the scoresheet is the final score of the bout (V–n,
                 where n = the number of touches scored by the losing fencer).
            b)   In épée, if the two fencers reach a score of 4–4, they must fence for a deciding touch,
                 up to the time limit. Any double touch will not be counted (and the fencers will
                 therefore remain where they are on the strip).
       2.   Three minutes of effective fencing time have passed.
            a)   If when the time limit expires there is a difference of at least one touch between the
                 scores of the two fencers, the fencer who has scored the greater number of touches is
                 declared winner. The score registered on the scoresheet is the actual score achieved in
                 the bout (VN – n, where N = the number of touches scored by the winning fencer and
                 n = the number of touches scored by the losing fencer).
            b)   If at the end of regulation time the scores are equal, the fencers fence for a deciding
                 touch, with a maximum time limit of one minute. Before the fencing recommences,
                 the Referee draws lots to decide who will be the winner if scores are still equal at the
                 end of the extra minute.


       In épée, during this minute, when double touches occur, points will not be awarded, the score will not
       change, and the fencers will retain their respective positions on the strip.


            c)   In this case the score registered on the scoresheet is always the actual score achieved
                 in the bout:
                 — VN – n if a deciding touch is scored within the time limit for the bout.
                 —    V4–4 or V3–3 or V2–2 or V1–1 or V0–0 if the winner is designated by drawing lots.
