t.45
       1.   For any injury or other medical reason which occurs in the course of a bout and which is
            properly attested by the designated sports medicine professional on duty, the Referee will
            allow a break in the bout lasting no longer than 5 minutes. Only the doctor and/or
            medical provider on duty can determine the length of time of treatment required when
            a medical time-out is granted. This break should be timed from the point when the
            designated sports medicine professional gave their opinion. This break should be strictly
            reserved for the requisite treatment. If the designated sports medicine professional
            considers, before or at the end of the 5-minute break, that the fencer is incapable of
            continuing the bout, the fencer must withdraw (individual events) and/or be replaced, if
            possible (team events) (cf. o.99.6.a/b).
            If the athlete retires and a medical withdrawal is determined, the designated sports
            medicine professional on duty must fully complete the medical withdrawal form and
            submit it to the Bout Committee for its inclusion into the final report.
            All breaks for a medical reason must be noted on the score-sheet for the bout, the pool, or
            the match.
       2.   During the remainder of the same day, a fencer cannot be allowed a further break unless
            as a result of a different injury or other medical reason.
       3.   Should a fencer demand a break which is deemed by the delegate of the designated sports
            medicine professional on duty to be unjustified, the Referee will penalize that fencer as
            specified in Articles t.158-162, t.166, t.170, for the offenses of the 2nd group.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                     18                                Version: November 2025
      4.   In team events a fencer judged unable to continue the bout by the designated sports
           medicine professional on duty may, nevertheless, on the advice of the same designated
           sports medicine professional, fence in subsequent matches on the same day.
      5.   The Bout Committee may modify the order of bouts in a pool in order to ensure the
           efficient running of the competition (cf. o.71.1).




USA Fencing Rules for Competition               19                             Version: November 2025
                                                Chapter 6
                       Refereeing and the Judging of touches
