t.50
       1.   For the rounds of pools and the direct elimination table, the Refereeing Delegates select
            the Referees by drawing lots.
       2.   For the pools, the Referee must be of a different nationality from that of any of the fencers
            in the pool.
       3.   For the direct elimination tables at each weapon, the Refereeing Delegates establish,
            among the Referees present, a list of the best referees in each weapon (according to the
            grades obtained during the season).
            For each quarter of the table, 4 Referees are assigned by drawing lots from among at least
            4 to 5 Referees, to referee the bouts in the order of the table. They must be of a different
            nationality from that of any of the fencers participating in that quarter of the table if
            possible. Then, the video consultants will be assigned by drawing lots among at least 4
            to 5 referees.
            Lots are drawn by the computer at each stage of the table, but may be modified by the
            Refereeing Delegates in case of any problem with the computer program, mistakes made

USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   21                                Version: November 2025
            by the operator of the computer program and in the case of conflicts between category A
            or B (FIE Statues, Chapter XII Ethical Code). In any case where the computer draw is
            modified, it must be with the agreement of the Bout Committee and signed by both the
            Refereeing Delegate and the Chair of the Bout Committee. At each referees’ meeting
            before any competition, the referees will be asked to declare their potential conflicts of
            interest to the Refereeing Delegate or the Chair of the Bout Committee. This information
            must be notified to USA Fencing by the Refereeing Delegate or the Bout Committee Chair.
       4.   At the end of each round, the Refereeing Delegates can withdraw one or more Referees
            whose performance was not satisfactory. This decision must be taken by the majority of
            the Refereeing Delegates present. However, a Referee may not be changed during a bout
            except in exceptional circumstances. In such a case the decision, which must be well
            founded, must be taken by the majority of the Refereeing Delegates present (this rule is
            equally valid for team competitions).
       5.   For the final of 4, the Refereeing Delegates, immediately after the end of the direct
            elimination tables, select 4 Referees by lot from among at least 4 to 5 Referees, who must
            be of a different nationality from any of the fencers.
            15 minutes before the final, the Refereeing Delegates will draw lots to assign the Referees
            for all the bouts for the two semi-finals, in the following order: 1st semi-final, 2nd semifinal.
            As soon as the two semi-finals are over, the Refereeing Delegates will establish a list of 4-5
            referees and draw lots to assign the Referee and the video consultant for the final, as well
            as (at the Olympic Games) the Referee and the video consultant of the bout for the 3rd
            place.
       6.   The drawing of lots is done with the help of a computer for the whole of the competition
            right through to the final. The computer program must record each drawing of lots so that
            it is possible to know which referees were submitted for each draw. The computer
            program should also be able to indicate whether the draw for any round was
            subsequently redone.
       7.   In conformity with articles t.50.2 and t.50.3, the designation of the video consultant must
            be made by drawing lots using a computer program. The name and nationality of the
            video-consultant must also be written on the pool or match sheet, beside those of the
            referee.
       Team competitions
