t.56
       The Referee must also apply the following rules:
       1.   Only the last touch made before the fault was established can be annulled and then only if
            it is the competitor against whom the hit was registered who is placed at a disadvantage
            by the failure.
       2.   The failure must be established by tests made immediately after the bout was stopped,
            under the supervision of the Referee and without changing anything whatever of the
            equipment in use.
       3.   A competitor who makes any modification in or who changes their equipment without
            being asked by the Referee to do so, before the Referee has given their decision, loses all
            right to the annulment of the touch.
       4.   If the bout has effectively recommenced, a competitor cannot claim the annulment of a
            touch awarded against themself before the said recommencement of the bout.
       5.   With these tests, one is trying only to establish whether there is material possibility of a
            mistake in the judgement as a result of a fault. The location of a fault found in the
            equipment (including the equipment of the competitors) is of no importance for this
            possible annulment.



USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    23                               Version: November 2025
       6.   It is not necessary that the failure found should repeat itself each time a test is made; but
            it is essential that the fault should be manifested to the Referee without the possibility of
            doubt at least once during the tests made by the Referee or under their supervision.
       7.   When a competitor against whom a touch has been registered has broken their blade, the
            touch must be annulled unless the breaking of the blade has occurred clearly after the
            touch has been registered.
       8.   The Referee must pay particular attention to touches which are not registered or which
            are registered abnormally. Should such defects be repeated, the Referee must ask a
            member of the SEMI Commission or an expert technician on duty to verify that the
            equipment conforms to the Rules.
       9.   The Referee must ensure that nothing is altered in the competitor’s equipment or in the
            whole of the electrical apparatus before the expert carries out the check.
       10. Touch made during or after a fall must be annulled.
       11. A competitor who intentionally drops their weapon during the fencing phrase will be
           penalized as specified in Articles t.166, t.170. However, a hit scored by the opponent is
           valid, provided that the action was started before the ‘Halt!’.
