t.73
       1.   If, when a fencer appears on the strip or during a bout, it is established that the equipment
            used by the fencer:
       a)   does not bear the marks applied at the preliminary check, the Referee will:
            — annul the last touch, if any, scored by the fencer at fault;
            — penalize the fencer as specified in Articles t.158-162, t.166, t.170, for the offenses of the
            2nd group.
       b) does not conform to the Rules in a way not covered by the preliminary check, the Referee
          will:
            — penalize the fencer as specified in Articles t.158-162, t.165, t.170, for the offenses of the
            2nd group.
       c)   has been passed by the preliminary check but is fraudulent; or
       d) bears the marks of the preliminary check which have been imitated or transferred; or
       e)   has been willfully altered (i.e. in a manner other than by accidental cause or by conditions
            during the bout) so that it would not pass a preliminary check;
       f)has been altered in any way to allow the recording of touches or the nonfunctioning of the
         apparatus at will; or
USA Fencing Rules for Competition               31                             Version: November 2025
       g) is equipped with electronic communication equipment permitting a person off the strip
          to communicate with the fencer during the bout;
       then, in cases c), e), f) and g) above, the Referee must immediately confiscate the equipment
       (weapon, bodycord and if necessary the conductive jacket, mask, protective under-plastron,
       jacket, knickers, etc.), and have it examined by the expert on duty.
       2.   After having obtained the opinion of the expert (a member of the SEMI Commission at
            the fencing events at the Olympic Games and at World Championships), who has
            established the facts (cf. m.33ss), the Referee will apply the following sanctions, without
            prejudice to the application of Article t.137.2/4;
       — in cases c), e), f) and g), the Referee will penalize the fencer as specified for offenses of the
         4th group (cf. Articles t.158-162, t.169, t.170).
       3.   While awaiting the decision of the Referee that bout will be suspended but the other
            bouts in the pool may continue.
