t.75
       1.   If the conductive jacket does not conform to the Rules, the fencer must put on a spare
            jacket that does conform to the Rules. If this jacket does not have their name and
            nationality on the back, the fencer has until the next stage of the competition (from the
            pools to the table of 64, the table of 32, etc.) to get their name and nationality printed on it.
            If this is not done and except in cases of “force majeure” the Referee will eliminate the
            fencer from the event in question.
       2.   If an item of a fencer’s clothing bearing the name and nationality or the national logo
            becomes dangerous (e.g. tear, burst seam), the fencer must put on spare clothing, which
            conforms to the rules. If this clothing does not conform to the regulations or does not bear
            the name and nationality or the national logo, the fencer has until the next stage of the
            competition to get them printed on it. If this is not done and except in cases of force
            majeure, the sanctions specified in t.74 apply.


       In USA Fencing competitions, in all three weapons, each fencer’s last name must be printed by hand or
       machine in capital letters between 8 and 10 cm high on either:
       1) the back of the uniform or lamé between the shoulders; or
       2) the front or side of the thigh of the “rear” leg.
     3) A piece of fabric or lamé material that is firmly sewn to the uniform in such a way that it will not
        detach during fencing or catch the opponent’s point.
USA Fencing Rules for Competition                      32                                Version: November 2025
          a) Fabric attached to the uniform must be the same color as the part of the uniform to which it is
          attached.
          b) Conductive materials must be attached in such a way as to not alter the conductivity of the
          metallic vest or jacket.
      4) Names printed on tape are not acceptable.
      5) Names on uniforms are required at the following types of tournaments:
          a) National
             -      North American Cup (all types)
             -      Junior Olympics
             -      Division I National Championships
             -      Summer Nationals
             -      Wheelchair National Championships
      6) Names on uniforms are not required at the following types of tournaments:
          a) Nationally Sponsored Regional Tournaments
          b) Sectional Championships
          c) Division Qualifiers to National Tournaments
          d) Any non-National tournament not listed under above types
          e) Non-Qualifier Division Level Tournaments (all types)
          f) Sectional Circuit Tournaments
          g) Regional Circuit Tournaments
    In case of violation of this rule, the Referee shall penalize the fencer at fault with a Red Card
    (t.158-162, t.166, t.170, Second Group). The fencer at fault shall however be allowed to remain
    on the strip and fence the bout concerned.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                    33                                 Version: November 2025
                                                   Foil

                              The Conventions of Fencing

       METHOD OF MAKING A TOUCH
