t.89

       The Referee should apply the following basic conventions of foil fencing:

       1.   When during a phrase, both fencers touch at the same time, there is either a simultaneous
            action or a double touch.

       2.   The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by
            both fencers; in this case the touches exchanged are annulled for both fencers even if one
            of them has been touched off the target.


USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   37                               Version: November 2025
      3.   The double touch, on the other hand, is the result of a faulty action on the part of one of
           the fencers.

           Therefore, when there is not a period of fencing time between the touches:

      4.   Only the fencer who is attacked is counted as touched:

           a)   If they make a stop hit on their opponent’s simple attack;

           b)   If, instead of parrying, attempts to avoid the touch and does not succeed in so doing;

           c)   If, after making a successful parry, makes a momentary pause which gives their
                opponent the right to renew the attack (redoublement, remise or reprise);

           d)   If, during a compound attack, makes a stop hit without being in time;

           e)   If, having their point in line (cf. t.15) and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the
                blade (prise de fer) which deflects their blade, attacks or places their point in line
                again instead of parrying a direct attack made by the opponent.

      5.   Only the fencer who attacks is counted as touched:

           a)   If the fencer initiates an attack when the opponent has their point in line (cf. t.15)
                without deflecting the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere grazing
                of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade;

           b)   If the fencer attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (is the object of a
                dérobement) and continues the attack;

           c)   If, during a compound attack, the opponent finds the blade, but the fencer continues
                the attack and the opponent ripostes immediately;

           d)   If, during a compound attack, makes a momentary pause, during which time the
                opponent makes a stop hit, after which the attacker continues the attack;

           e)   If, during a compound attack, is stop hit in time before beginning the final
                movement;

           f)   If the fencer makes a touch by a remise, redoublement or reprise when their original
                attack has been parried and their opponent has made a riposte which is immediate,
                simple, and executed in one period of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.

      6.   The Referee must replace the competitors on guard each time that there is a double
           touch and the Referee is unable to judge clearly on which side the fault lies.




USA Fencing Rules for Competition                   38                                Version: November 2025
                                                 Épée

                              The Conventions of Fencing

       METHOD OF MAKING A TOUCH
