t.94
       The Referee must take note of possible failures of the electrical equipment and must annul the
       last touch registered in the following circumstances:
       1.   If a touch made on the guard of the competitor against whom the touch was registered or
            on the conductive strip causes the apparatus to register a touch;
            However, the fact that the épée of a competitor has large or small areas of insulation
            formed by oxidation, by glue, paint or any other material on any part of the weapon, on
            which the opponent’s hits can cause a hit to be signaled, or that the electric tip is badly
            fixed to the end of the blade so that it can be unscrewed or tightened by hand, cannot
            justify the annulment of hits registered against that competitor.
       2.   If a touch properly made by the competitor against whom the touch was registered does
            not cause the apparatus to register a touch;
       3.   If the apparatus fortuitously registers a touch on the side of the competitor against whom
            the touch was registered, for example, after a beat on the blade, by any movements of their
            opponent, or as a result of any cause other than a properly made touch;
       4.   If the registering of a touch made by the competitor against whom the touch was
            registered is annulled by a subsequent touch made by their opponent.
       5.   Special cases:
            — If a double touch is registered and one touch is valid and the other is not valid (such
            as a touch made on some surface other than on the opponent (cf. t.93.1) or a touch made
            after leaving the strip (cf. t.33ss), only the valid touch is scored.
            — If a double touch is registered by an established touch and a doubtful touch
            (failure of the electrical apparatus, cf. t.93) the fencer who has made the established
            touch may choose to accept the double touch or ask to have it annulled.
