Resources & Protocols For Officials
REFEREE DATABASE
, OPENS IN A NEW TAB
FAQ SECTION
NATIONAL EVENT OFFICIALS' INFO
REFEREE MISCONDUCT & ETHICS REPORT
, OPENS IN A NEW TAB
Resources 
Rulebook

In the United States, the rules of fencing are maintained by the RC. The rules are usually updated once per year, often in the fall before the start of the USA Fencing season. These yearly changes often incorporate changes in the international rules of fencing, which are maintained by the Federation International d’Escrime (FIE). All rules changes proposed by the RC must be approved by the USA Fencing Board of Directors, which usually occurs at their annual meeting in September.

The USA Fencing rules differ in places from the international rules of fencing. Referees who work internationally should be intimately familiar with the FIE rules as well as the differences between the international rules and the U.S. rules.

At the 2019 FIE Congress, the following modifications were made to the FIE rules, which took effect on January 1, 2020:

FIE Rule Changes - Organization and Technical

Questions about the rules should be directed to the Rules Committee.




USA Fencing Rulebook

FIE Rules

Penalty Chart

Operations Manual

Athlete Handbook 




Officials Documents And Forms

Expense Policies & Payment Forms

2025-26 Domestic Travel & Expense Reimbursement Policies: Full Time

2025-26 Domestic Travel & Expense Reimbursement Policies: Part Time

2025-26 International Expense Form

International Money Transfer

Direct Deposit Form

W-9 Form

Reference & Resources Forms

Definitions and Examples of Part-Time and Full-Time Work for Referees

Minor Officials Medical Treatment Authorization and Consent Form

USA Fencing Officials’ Contract (2025-2026 season)

Minor Officials Travel Authorization Forms

FIE and EFC License Application

Guide on Conflict of Interest




Mask Designs

Fencers may submit pictures of designs on their mask for prior approval at USA Fencing tournaments to the RC Rules Committee, RCRulesandExams@refereescommission.org. Any approved mask designs will be posted below. When submitting a mask design, please include these five views: full front, left side, right side, top, rear. Masks not listed below will be approved at the sole discretion of the head referee at the tournament.

Mask designs that have been approved for use in FIE competitions are approved for use in USA Fencing competitions.

RC Approved Mask Designs

FIE Approved Mask Designs (Jan 2019)

FIE National Logos (Nov 2018)

Season End Referee Usage Summaries
FIND THEM HERE
National Tournament Referee Usage Reports
FIND THEM HERE
USA Fencing Referee Development YouTube

You can view the USA Fencing Referee Delopment YouTube Page below, these videos are served as a learning purpose with examples:

https://www.youtube.com/@USAFencingRefereeDevelopment/videos

Help Center 
USA Fencing Tournament Officials Support Policy

USA Fencing referees, tournament officials, tournament staff and others acting in a representative role of USA Fencing are entitled to a harassment-free environment.

In the event that an official, acting reasonably within their role as a USA Fencing representative, receives a legal threat, they are asked to pass this to USA Fencing, which will support the individual with defense resources. Officials are asked to immediately contact our Director of Athlete Safety & Organizational Compliance, Jess Saxon, by email —(j.saxon@usafencing.org) with a copy to the CEO Phil Andrews (p.andrews@usafencing.org).

Endure Mentality

Endure Mentality is a new partnership that provides free mental fitness services to USA Fencing referees, as well as for coaches, armorers, sports med and bout committee.

Read the full partnership announcement along with additional information, found on this page

For more information or to take advantage of these services, visit this link and click on the “Coaches & Referee Access” button on the top right hand corner.

FenceSafe

In the event that an official receives any undue conduct inclusive of harassment, they are encouraged to report that immediately to USA Fencing using the FenceSafe reporting form.

FILE A REPORT
Emburse Professional 
What Is Emburse Professional?

Emburse Professional (formerly Emburse Certify) is now the official and streamlined system for all National Officials to submit expenses for reimbursement. Launched at the start of the 2024–2025 season, and made a requirement starting with the 2025 January NAC.

All officials working National-level tournaments must now submit their expenses through Emburse Professional. Submissions sent via the previous method (emailing forms to the Expenses inbox) will no longer be accepted or processed.

Officials have 30 days after the conclusion of a tournament to submit their expenses.

Planning to work a National tournament but don’t have Emburse set up yet? Contact t.gonzales@usafencing.org to get your account activated!

Emburse Documents

Emburse Documents and How to Guides

Emburse Certify User Guide
Examples of Airline, Baggage, and Ground Transportation Submissions Only
Examples of Hotel, Mileage and Meal Receipts Submissions Only
Protocols 
Codes/Policies
Referee Misconduct & Ethics Report
USA Fencing Officials FAQs | Insurance, Policy Violations And Protections 
I have sustained an injury at a USA Fencing-sanctioned event, what do I do?
I have an issue with the conduct of a USA Fencing member, what do I do?
What determines who has jurisdiction between the RC Ethics Committee, Grievance & Disciplinary Committee or an outside body such as the US Center for SafeSport?
I have run into a legal issue in my role as a USA Fencing referee, executing the duties of referee, what do I do?
My issue isn’t covered here!
