m.12. 1. The base of the button must be screwed onto the end of the blade, which
         must be cut and threaded for this purpose respecting the following
         conditions.

      2 Normally, only fixing by metal-to-metal is allowed. However, fixing by any
        material of great mechanical strength may be authorised after approval by
        the SEMI Commission of the FIE.

      3 All methods of soldering or brazing or in general any heating which may
        affect the temper of the blade are forbidden.



                                                                                          14
FIE                                                            August 2026




        4 The end of the blade before cutting the thread must not have a diameter at
          any point of less than 3.5 mm, and this without anything being wrapped
          round it, a process which is strictly forbidden.

        5 The diameter of the core of the thread must not be less than 2.7 mm
          (thread SI 3.5 x 0.60). The threading must be very tight.

        6 The part of the blade on which the button is fixed should be of a length of
          7–8mm entirely covered by the button. It is recommended that only the half
          of this length at the extremity of the blade be threaded. For the other half
          the button will have a smooth surface of 3.5 mm diameter into which it
          should take some force for the corresponding part of the blade to be
          introduced.

        7   At the point at which the wire passes into the button, the width of the
            groove must not exceed 0.5 mm, and its depth must not exceed 0.6 mm
            measured on the diameter of the core of the thread, in order to weaken as
            little as possible the section of the blade.

        8   Only the members of the SEMI Committee of the FIE or the Directoire
            Technique can require the verification of the above points.

        The insulation of the button, the blade and the handle
