m.19. 1. The electric button is completed by a pointe d’arrêt which must conform to
          the following specifications.
         It must be easy to apply the pointe d’arrêt of the opponent’s weapon to the
         earth circuit connected to the blade.

          a) The pointe d’arrêt is cylindrical. Its front surface is flat and
              perpendicular to its axis. Its edge will either be rounded with a radius of
              0.5 mm or have a chamfer of 0.5 mm at 45° (see Figure 10).


                                                                                            18
FIE                                                                                     August 2026




                        Figure 10. Epée: details of the electric button
      This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence




      b) The diameter of the crown of the pointe d’arrêt is 8 mm with a
         tolerance of
         ± 0.05 mm. The diameter of the base must not be less than 7.7 mm.
      c) The flange (collar) which guides the pointe d’arrêt as well as the
         insulating washer must be sufficiently recessed in relation to the crown
         (it is recommended that it be reduced in diameter by 0.3–0.5 mm in
         relation to the crown) so that it shall not be possible to cause a hit to be
         registered merely by sliding the depressed pointe d’arrêt against the
         convex surface of the guard (see Figure 11) (cf. t.67.a).




                                                                                                                              19
FIE                                                                                     August 2026




                              Figure 11. Epée: details of tip of point
      This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence




                                                                                                                              20
FIE                                                            August 2026




      2. The pressure required on the pointe d’arrêt in order to complete the circuit
         in the épée, and thus cause the apparatus to register a hit, must be more than
         750 g, that is to say that this weight must be lifted by the spring of the point.

      3. The weight used to check competitors’ épées on the piste consists of a
         metal cylinder drilled part of the way along its axis with a hole parallel to its
         sides; this hole, into which is inserted the end of the blade, must have an
         insulating lining to prevent its metallic parts coming into contact with the
         earthed mass of the épée which might then give a false result to the test.

         This weight of 750 g may have a tolerance of ± 3 g, i.e. 747–753 g.
      4. a) The course or travel of the pointe d’arrêt required to complete the
            circuit in the épée and thus cause the apparatus to register a hit, called
            the lighting stroke, must be greater than 1 mm. The further course
            which the pointe d’arrêt may travel must be less than 0.5 mm. (This
            requirement is just as essential as that for the lighting stroke). The
            gauge used should have a tolerance of a maximum of +/- 0.05mm.

          b) The total course or travel of the point must be greater than 1.5 mm (cf.
             t.68.3). The gauge used should have a tolerance of a maximum of +/-
             0.05mm.

          c) Adjusting the lighting stroke by means of screws or any other
             external fixing device, once the point has been assembled on the
             weapon, is forbidden (cf t.44.3).

          d) An external screw or similar fixing device is only allowed if it is
             actually part of the assembling of the point.

          e) The head of the screw or fixing device must never project beyond the
             flat top surface of the point and its housing in the flat surface may not
             exceed 2 mm in diameter.

      5. The pointe d’arrêt must be retained in the button at at least two points
         equally spaced, or by any other system approved by the SEMI Committee
         of the FIE.

      Method of affixing the button
