m.20. If the base of the button is not made in one piece with the blade, or if it does
      not permit the flattened inset piece at the tip of the blade to be retained, the
      button must be screwed onto the end of the blade, which must be cut and
      threaded for this purpose respecting the following conditions.


                                                                                             21
FIE                                                         August 2026




      1. Normally, only fixing by metal to metal is allowed. However, fixing by
         any material of great mechanical strength may be authorised after approval
         by the SEMI Committee of the FIE.
      2. The end of the blade, before cutting the thread, must not have a diameter
         at any point which is less than 4 mm and this without anything being
         wrapped round it, a process which is strictly forbidden.

      3. a) The diameter of the core of thread at the end of the blade must not be
            less than 3.05 mm (thread SI 4.0 x 0.70).

          b) The part of the blade on which the button is fixed should be of a
             length of 7–8 mm entirely covered by the button. It is recommended
             that only the half of this length, at the extremity of the blade, be
             threaded. For the other half the button will have a smooth surface of 4.0
             mm diameter into which it should take some force for the
             corresponding part of the blade to be introduced.

      4. The groove necessary to enable the wires to enter the button must be cut in
         such a way that it weakens as little as possible the section of the blade.

      5. Only the members of the SEMI Committee of the FIE or the Directoire
         Technique can require the verification of the above points.




      SABRE

      Length
                                                                                         22
FIE                                                            August 2026
