m.23. 1. The blade, which must be of steel, is approximately rectangular in section.
          The maximum length of the blade is 88 cm. The minimum width of the
          blade, which must be at the button, is 4 mm; its minimum thickness, also
          measured immediately below the button, must be at least 1.2 mm.

      2. The end of the blade must be folded over onto itself or be fashioned in one
         piece to form a button which, viewed end on, must have a square or
         rectangular section of 4 mm minimum and 6 mm maximum. The maximum
         dimension must be not more than 3 mm from the end of the blade.

      3. If the blade has a curve, it must be a distinct curve which must be
         continuous, and the deflection must be less than 4 cm. Blades with sharply
         bent extremities or which curve in the direction of the cutting edge are
         forbidden.

          The curve of the blade must be measured as follows:

           i) the blade is placed on a flat surface so that the curve is uppermost;

           ii) the maximum distance between the flat surface and the blade is
               measured: this distance is deemed to be the curve of the blade (cf Fig
               13).

      4. The sabre blade must have a flexibility equivalent to a bend of minimum 4
         cm and maximum 7 cm measured in the following way.

           a) The blade is fixed horizontally at a point 70 cm from the tip of the
              blade.
           b) A 200 g weight (tolerance +/- 1 g) is hung 1 cm from the tip.
           c) The curve is measured at the tip of the blade between the weighted and
              unweighted positions (see Figures 12 and 13).




                                                                                        23
FIE                                                                                     August 2026




                         Figure 12. Sabre dimensions and flexibility
      This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt the wording of the appropriate text takes precedenc


                                                                                                                             24
FIE                                                         August 2026




      The guard (cf. m.5)
