m.25.

        1. Protection: The equipment and clothing must provide the competitor with the
           maximum protection compatible with the freedom of movement necessary for
           fencing.

        2. Safety: Fencers’ clothing must be clean and in good condition and with FIE
           Homologation label. It must not be possible for the opponent to be obstructed or
           injured by the equipment, nor for it to have either buckles or openings in which
           the opponent’s point may be caught up — except accidentally — and thus held or
           deflected. The jacket and its collar must be completely buttoned or done up.
        3. Characteristics of the clothing:
            a) The national uniform includes the socks, the breeches and the jacket.
            b) The material from which the equipment is made must not have a surface
               which is smooth enough to cause the pointe d’arrêt, the button or the
               opponent’s hit to glance off (cf. m.30).

            c) Jackets, under-plastrons, breeches and trousers must be made entirely in cloth
               able to resist a pressure of 800 Newtons. Very particular attention must be
               paid to the way the seams under the armpits, if there are any, are made. The
               fastenings of the uniform, jacket and breeches, (typically zips), must be
               protected by a flap sewn to cover the fastenings in the direction of the fencer's
               armed arm (right handed from right to left – left handed from left to right). An
               under-garment consisting of a protective under-plastron covering the vital
               upper areas of the body (following the design given in Annexe A to these
               Rules, ‘Safety norms for manufacturers’) resistant to 800 Newtons is also
               obligatory.

            d) Fencers’ clothing may be of different colours, apart from black.

            e) There shall be only one national uniform per country with the exception that
               the manufacturers' marks and sponsors' logos may be different.

            f) Logos (national strips) worn on the national clothing must be approved by the
               FIE Executive Committee; they are then published on the FIE website and
               may thereafter be used in official FIE competitions.

            g) For all official FIE competitions, the wearing of national strips (logos) is
               compulsory on both legs, optional on the arm(s) (cf. t.74.2), and the logos
               must be identical.

                                                                                 27
FIE                                                         August 2026



          The logos must be identical for all fencers of the same federation.

         h) The family name of the fencer must be displayed on the back of the jacket,
            with the abbreviation of the national federation below it, at the level of the
            shoulder blades. They must be printed directly onto the jacket or onto a cloth
            entirely sewn onto the jacket. The letters must be in dark blue, in Roman
            capitals, between 8 cm and 10 cm high, and each stroke must be a maximum of
            1.5 cm wide.




          A World Champion has the right to have his/her name and the abbreviation of
          his/her national federation printed in red for the following season.

          An Olympic Champion has the right to have his/her name and the abbreviation of
          his/her national federation printed in gold until the end of the next Olympic
          Games.

      4. Jacket

         a) At all weapons, for men and ladies, the lower edge of the jacket must overlap
            the breeches by at least 10 cm when the fencer is in the on-guard position (cf.
            m.28, m.34).

         b) The jacket must include a lining making a double thickness of material for the
            sleeve down to the elbow of the sword arm and covering the flank up to the
            region of the armpit. At épée the fencer is required to wear a regulation jacket,
            which covers the whole of the surface of the trunk.

          c) At all weapons, the use of a breast/chest protector (made of metal or some
             rigid material) is compulsory for women and optional for men. At foil,
             this breast/chest protector must be worn below the protective plastron.

              At foil, the protector will have the following characteristics: The entire
              outside of the chest protector (the side facing the opponent) must be covered
              with a soft material such as E.V.A. (Ethylene-vinyl acetate) of four mm
              thickness and density of 22kg/m3. (The material can be attached to the
              current plastic models or incorporated into the manufacture of new chest
                                                                                28
FIE                                                     August 2026

          protectors). The material must have the SEMI technical mark at the center of
          the upper edge.


      5. Breeches and socks

      a) The breeches must be fastened below the knees.



      b) With breeches, the fencer must wear socks which cover the legs right up to the
         breeches. These socks must be held up in such a way that they cannot fall
         down.

      c) The fencer is permitted to wear socks with a 10cm turn-over showing the
         colours of his national team.

      d) Both socks worn by the fencer must be matching – the same design and colour.


      6. Glove

         At all weapons, the gauntlet of the glove must, in all circumstances, fully
         cover approximately half the forearm of the competitor’s sword arm to prevent
         the opponent’s blade entering the sleeve of the jacket.

         Under no circumstances should there be any hole in the hand of the glove,
         even to allow the passage of the body wire.

         The closure of the glove should be from the middle of the wrist upwards
         towards the thumb.


      7. Mask

      a) The mask must be made with meshes (space between the wires) of maximum
         2.1 mm and from wires with a minimum gauge of 1 mm diameter. The mask
         must include two different safety systems at the rear.

      b) Masks, at all weapons, must be made in accordance with the safety standards
         described in Annexe A to these Rules and must carry the quality label
         specified in those standards.

      c) The entire mesh of the mask must be able to withstand, without permanent
         deformation, the introduction of a conical instrument, the angle of the surface
         of the cone being at 4° to the axis and at a pressure of 12 kg.



                                                                         29
FIE                                                          August 2026

          d) The bib of the mask must be made with cloth resistant to 1600 Newtons.

          e) The mask must contain two different safety systems at the rear of the mask,
             with the two ends of the straps of the systems firmly affixed to the two sides of
             the mask. These straps must meet the following requirements approved by the
             SEMI Commission and any retro-fitting to existing masks must be carried out
             by the original manufacturer.


             Mask with metallic tongue
      •      The central band (strap) should not be less than 45 mm wide.

      •       The strap must be positioned low enough across the rear of the cervical region
              that the position of the strap on the head ensures that the mask cannot slide
              off.
      •       The band must be in solid material : when stretched the material should not
              sustain permanent plastic deformation and should quickly return to its original
              shape and size
      •       The fastening system must be doubled: it must be closed with a double
              security system (this means that the Velcro™ has to be attached at least
              twice).
      •       The Velcro™ must have a minimum breaking strain of 750 N/cm
      •       The tags to which the strap is attached by Velcro must be secured to each side
              of the mask with the same breaking strain.
              .
              Mask without metallic tongue

      •       The position of the main strap must be low enough to ensure that the mask
              cannot slide off; the correct distance should be decided by the manufacturer
              (typically 25/30 mm).
      •       The strap must incorporate 3 fixing points.
      •       The use of a magnetic strap, already existing, remains mandatory.


             Please refer to the examples in the drawings below:




                                                                               30
FIE                                                            August 2026




      These images are only provided for information. When in doubt, the wording of the
      relevant text prevails.


      RULES SPECIFIC TO FOIL

      Glove (cf. m.25)
