m.28. 1. The conductive surface of the conductive over-jacket which is worn over the
         protective jacket must cover the valid target of the fencer (cf. t.47) entirely and
         without omission when in the on-guard position. The jacket must have a
         conductive flap, minimum 2 cm by 3 cm, near the middle of the back, just below
         the collar, to which the crocodile clip from the mask can be attached

      2. Whatever the means of fastening used, the conductive material must cover a
         sufficient area to ensure that it covers the valid target in all positions of the fencer.
         The overlap must always be on the sword-arm side.
                                                                                  31
FIE                                                          August 2026


      3. The interior of conductive jackets must be electrically insulated by a lining or by
         an adequate treatment of the conductive lamé material.

      4. The conductive collar must have a minimum height of 3 cm and the foil
         conductive jacket must have a conductive flap, minimum 2cm by 3 cm, near the
         middle of the back, just below the collar, to which the crocodile clip from the mask
         can be attached.

      5. The lamé material used must be of conductive thread in both warp and weft. As
         regards electrical conductibility it must conform to the following requirements.
          a) The electrical resistance measured between any two points of the lamé
             material must not be greater than 5 ohms. The resistance will be measured by
             using a 500g conductive metal weight which has a hemispherical end with a
             radius of 4 mm. This weight, placed on this end and moved about on the lamé,
             must maintain continuous contact with a maximum resistance of 5 ohms.

          b) In no circumstances must the use of a conductive jacket be allowed if it has
             holes in it, or patches of oxidation or other defects which may prevent the
             registration of a valid hit.

      6. The conductive jacket must be so made that when it is laid flat there is a straight
         line between the point of junction of the lines of the groin and the two points
         corresponding to the tops of the hip bones (ilium).

      7. The band of non-conductive material passing between the legs must be at least 3
         cm wide (see Figure 14).




                                                                               32
FIE                                                                                         August 2026




                                      Figure 14. Foil: conductive jacket
          This diagram is for guidance purposes only. In case of any doubt the wording of the appropriate text takes precedence
