m.29. Bodywire and attachment plugs

      1. a) The conductive wires of the bodywire must be well insulated electrically from
            each other, twisted or joined together, and not be affected by humidity.

          b) This bodywire has a connecting plug which must be made of a transparent
             material at each end. In the absence of a security device being fitted to the
             weapon, a security device must be fitted to the plug of the bodywire.

          c) The electrical resistance of each of these conductive wires (plug to plug and
          plug to crocodile clip) must not exceed 1 ohm.



                                                                                                                          33
FIE                                                           August 2026

      2. a) At the spool end the three-pin male plug, which must comply with the
            conditions of manufacture and assembly laid down in Article m.55, will be
            attached to the wires in the following manner:

              — the pin at 15 mm from the centre pin to the conductive jacket;
              — the central pin to the wire in the weapon;

              — the pin at 20 mm from the centre pin to the foil earth circuit or the
              conductive piste.
          b) The wire which joins the rear connection of the bodywire to the conductive
             jacket by a crocodile clip must be separate for at least 40 cm. This wire must
             be soldered to the crocodile clip and this soldering must not be covered by any
             insulation or any material whatsoever. However, any method of fixing which
             presents the same guarantees as soldering may be used, provided it has been
             accepted by the SEMI Committee.

          c) The crocodile clip must be robust and ensure perfect contact with the
             conductive jacket. Its width at the point of contact must be at least 10 mm; the
             inside of the clip must leave a free space at least 8 mm long by 3 mm high. It
             must be clipped onto the back of the conductive jacket on the sword-arm side.

      3. a) At the end nearest the foil, inside the guard, any method of attachment is
            allowed but the method adopted must always conform to the specification laid
            down in Article m.5.

          b) In addition, the pins of the plug must in no circumstances be able to touch the
             metal part of the guard.

RULES SPECIFIC TO EPEE

      Mask
