m.38. 1. Fencers are obliged to present themselves at the Weapon Checking Centre, at
         the time advised in the timetable of each official competition of the FIE, with
         the equipment they intend to use during the event in question. The number of
         articles handed to the Checking Centre is limited to four weapons, three
         bodywires, two conductive jackets, two masks and three mask-to-jacket leads
         per fencer.
         To make the checking of weapons easier and allow the complete observation of
         the tip and its base, foil fencers must present their foils at the weapon control
         with bare points not covered with adhesive tape over the first 15cm.

      2. Each competitor must submit his weapons in a fencing bag at the Weapon
         Checking Centre reception. An inventory of the equipment is made by an
         organising official and a label is put on the bag, indicating the name of the
         country of the competitor. The bags are stored in the order in which they arrive,
         and are checked in the same order.
      3. Provision should be made for weapons and clothing to be submitted on the
         morning of the day before the competition. Having been checked, the
         material will be returned to the delegations at the end of the day.

         Weapons, equipment and clothing presented to the Checking Centre after 5 p.m.
         on the day before each event may be refused.

      4. Each head of delegation must indicate where he can be contacted should a
         serious fault be detected while the equipment belonging to his fencers is being
         checked.

      5. If a weapon is found to be defective at the first check a form is attached indicating
         the fault: e.g. the length of the blade, the insulation, the spring of the point, cutting
         edges, etc. This form is completed at the second check. However, when a weapon
         is rejected, it must go through the entire cycle again.

      6. A mask which does not comply with the safety requirements laid down in this
         article will be rendered visibly unusable by the weapon checking personnel or the
         Referee in the presence of the person who presented the mask to the weapon check
         or the team captain of the fencer concerned.

      7. The fencers or the team captain can only insist on the return of the equipment
         which has been checked one hour before the start of the event.

      8. A conductive jacket which is considered to be unusable will be so marked with a
         very visible coloured paint by a member of the FIE SEMI Commission.
                                                                                  39
FIE                                                            August 2026
