m.42. 1. In order to allow those carrying out the checking to fulfil their task, the organisers
          are required to make available the equipment and the personnel necessary to carry
          out the work.

        2. The Organising Committee must provide the FIE technical delegates responsible
           for checking the weapons and equipment with at least the following apparatus:

           a) Two gauges allowing the lengths of blades and the depths and diameters of the
              guards at all weapons to be measured quickly.

           b) Devices for measuring the flexibility of blades and the resistance of the mesh
              of masks.
           c) An electrical checking device to check quickly the electrical resistance and
              that the bodywire and the weapon are correctly assembled.

           d) Weights of 750 g and 500 g to test the springs of the points in épée and foil, in
              the workshop and at each piste.

           e) A device allowing the lighting stroke and residual travel of épée points to be
              accurately measured, in the workshop and at each piste.



                                                                                  40
FIE                                                         August 2026

      f) Labels to indicate that a weapon has been checked and that it satisfies the
         regulation, or has been rejected.

      g) In the world championships and Olympic Games the control of blades by
         Foucault current is mandatory.

      h) The organisers must provide a special stamp to be affixed to each conductive
         jacket to enable the referees to verify that its resistance in ohms has been
         checked by the technical delegates of the FIE. Nevertheless, this compulsory
         checking mark is not sufficient to justify the use of the jacket. In effect, it is the
         task of the Referee to check, before each event, that the conductive jacket,
         having been checked and marked, entirely covers the valid target area, and
         accordingly to make the final decision whether it may be used.

      i) A special ink or paint must be provided to mark the guards, blades and points
         of weapons which have been checked. Nevertheless, those responsible may use
         other methods to mark the weapons and conductive jackets.




                                                                               41
FIE                                                          August 2026




                         Figure 16. Gauge for checking weapons
