m.5     1. The convex face of the guard must have a shape and surface which is both
        smooth and not too shiny. It must be so made that it can neither hold nor catch
        the opponent’s point. It must not have a raised rim.

        2. a) For foil and épée, inside the guard there must be a cushion (padding)
              sufficiently wide to protect the electric wires from the fencer’s
              fingers. The padding on the inside of the guard must be less than 2 cm
              thick and must be arranged in such a way as not to increase the
              protection which the guard affords the hand.

            b) The connections must be so arranged that it is impossible for the fencer
               to break or make contacts while fencing.

            c) On foils, the wire must be protected by an insulating sheath.

                                                                                          9
FIE                                                          August 2026




          d) On épées, the two wires must be protected by two insulating sheaths,
             one on each wire.

          e) Both the wire and the insulating sheath must go right up to the socket.

          f) In no case may uninsulated wires project beyond the point where they
             are attached to the socket (cf. m.29, m.31).

      3. Any system of attachment inside the guard is allowed, provided that it
         conforms to the following requirements.

          a) It must be easy to detach or attach the bodywire.

          b) It must be possible to check it.

          c) It must have a security device which prevents the bodywire from
             becoming unplugged during the bout. In the absence of a security
             device being fitted to the weapon, a security device must be fitted to
             the plug of the bodywire.

          d) It must ensure the complete connection of the electric wires; it must
             be impossible for even a momentary break of contact to occur while
             the plugs are connected.

          e) It must not include any part which allows electrical contact to be
             made between the plug sockets.

      4. a) The maximum electrical resistance allowed for foil and épée is 2
         ohms and for sabre 1 ohm.

         Equipment and Checking of Weapons
      5. a) At foil and épée, only traditional or homologated pointes d'arrêt are
            accepted.

          b) In order that the registering of hits by the contact of the point on the
             opponent be correctly registered by the scoring device, the pointes
             d'arrêt must be clean. The electrical resistance measured in ohms must
             not exceed the limit of two ohms (m.5.4.a).

          c) The blades and the guards at épée, foil and sabre must be totally of
             metal. Apart from at sabre where the part of the guard next to the
             pommel is insulated (insulating sheath), their exteriors must not be
             covered by any material (plastic or other).

                                                                                        10
FIE                                                          August 2026




              The guard may not feature any advertising. This is also the case for
              the insulated part of the sabre guard.


                                           FOIL

      Weight
