m.51. 1. A hit made on the conductive piste or on the metallic parts of the weapon must
         not be registered by the apparatus, nor may it prevent the registering of a hit made
         simultaneously by the opponent. At foil a hit made on a part of the foil may
         register if an uninsulated part of the weapon of the fencer is in contact with his
         conductive jacket.

      2. The apparatus must not have any device whereby anyone other than the person
         detailed to supervise it can interrupt its working during a bout.

      3. Hits are registered by light signals. The signal lamps must be placed on the top of
         the apparatus, in order that they may be visible to the Referee, the competitors and
         the superintendent of the apparatus. They must be so positioned that they show
         clearly from which side the hit was made. It must be possible to attach extension
         lamps to the exterior of the apparatus, in order to increase the visibility of the
         signals.

         At foil, when using the apparatus it should be noted that:

         a)        If a non-valid hit has been scored the apparatus will not register a
         possible valid hit scored on the same side of the apparatus.

         b)       The apparatus does not indicate whether there is any priority in time
         between two or more hits which it registers simultaneously.



      4. Once the signal lamps are alight, they must so remain until the apparatus is reset,
         without having any tendency to go out or flicker either when subsequent hits are
         made or if the apparatus is subjected to vibrations.

      5. The visual signals must be accompanied by audible signals (cf. Annexe B).

      6. The resetting switches must be placed either on top of or on the front part of the
         apparatus.

      7.a) For official competitions of the FIE (cf. t.1) the source of power must always be
         secured through external batteries or UPS (Uninterruptible power supply) in order
         not to interrupt the load during the match if any interruption occurs in the normal
         electricity supply. The wiring of the apparatus to be powered in this way must be
         designed so that it is impossible for the apparatus to become connected by mistake
         directly to the mains supply.


                                                                               44
FIE                                                         August 2026

          b) All fencing salles, clubs, etc., and the organisers of training sessions or
             competitions involving weapons using electrical equipment, may use the

              current supplied by the mains on condition that they adhere strictly to the
              technical standards laid down on the subject by their countries and
              international communities.

      8. During the last 10 seconds of each period in an individual bout and of each bout in
         a team match, the clock must show: the time to a tenth of second when the scoring
         apparatus is running and to a hundredth of second when the scoring apparatus is
         stopped. The timer should be provided with a remote start/stop device (see Annex
         B for technical specifications).

      9. For the finals of official competitions of the FIE, the clock must be equipped with
         a system which connects it to some external extension clocks displaying large
         luminous numbers, and with another system for the connection of the audible
         signal. These two connection systems must be separated from the circuits situated
         inside the central judging apparatus by means of opto-couplers (cf. t.32, m.44).

      10. When the cable connecting the audible-signal apparatus to the clock is
          disconnected, the audible-signal apparatus must emit a sound of between 80 and
          100 decibels (measured at the centre line of the piste) lasting between 2 and 3
          seconds, but the central judging apparatus must not be blocked and the clock must
          not be stopped (cf. t.32, m.44, m.51/9).

      11. For official FIE competitions (cf. t.1) the apparatus must obligatorily be powered
          through external batteries or UPS (Uninterruptible power supply) with minimum 5
          minutes backup time


      Number and quality of judging apparatuses
