m.57. 1. The conductive piste must be made from metal, metallic mesh or some substance
         that is conductive. The resistance of the piste, from one end to the other, must not
         exceed 5 ohms.

      2. The conductive piste must cover the whole of the length and breadth of the piste
         including its extensions, in order to neutralise floor hits.

      3. a) When the piste is mounted on a platform the conductive piste must cover the
            whole width of the platform.

          b) The platform must not exceed 50 cm in height, and must be wider than the
             fencing piste itself by at least 25 cm on each side. Each end of the podium
             must be equipped with a gentle slope right down to ground level.

             At the Veterans World Championships, the piste is not mounted on a platform.
Application: immediate

      4. Because the amount of wire which the spools can carry is limited, the conductive
         piste is designed for use on a piste 14 m long; an extension of 1.50–2 m is added at
         each end of the piste to allow the fencer crossing the rear limits of the piste to retire
         on an even and unvarying surface. The conductive piste must therefore have a
         length of 17–18 m.

      5. a) The wooden bases are 12–15 cm above ground level. Their sides must not be
            sloping.

          b) Must have a metal strip, screwed down if possible, which will keep down the
             edges of the conductive piste along the entire length of the base on both sides.

          c) Pistes made of metallic mesh must never be placed directly on a floor of
             reinforced concrete or tiles.

      6. The paint used to draw the lines on the conductive piste must not prevent its
         electrical conductibility, so that a hit made on it at a point where a line occurs is
         also neutralised.

      7. The organisers must have equipment for the immediate repair of the piste
         available on the spot.

      8. There must be no roller or any sort of obstacle at the ends of the conductive pistes
         which could prevent the fencers from retreating normally.

      9. Pistes used in the World Championships and in the Olympic Games must be tested
         before competition by the organisers using the apposite device.
                                                                                  48
FIE                                                           August 2026




                 CHAPTER 4. SOURCE OF ELECTRICAL CURRENT
