o.4
       A competition can only be classed or kept as a World Cup competition if it satisfies the following
       criteria.

  1   Participation must include fencers:
          -   from at least eight countries, for individual senior competitions in Europe.
          -   from at least five countries, for individual senior competitions outside Europe.
          -   from at least five countries, for individual junior competitions.
          -   from at least six countries, for team senior competitions in Europe.
          -   from at least four countries, for team senior competitions outside Europe.
          -   from at least four countries, for team junior competitions.

  2   Participation in individual competitions must include a minimum of ten fencers listed in the top 32 in
      the official ranking of the FIE and representing at least five different countries for senior
      competitions in Europe (no requirement for juniors and cadet competitions outside Europe).




                                                    4
                                                                                              August 2026

 1    The competition must be attended by at least four FIE A or B Grade referees of different
      nationalities.


 4    The Rules of the FIE must be faithfully applied, as well as the specifications for World Cup
      competitions. The organisers must use automatic judging equipment of which the prototype has
      been approved by the SEMI.

 5    The finals must take place in a hall in which there is space allocated to the public.

 6    There must be a sufficient number of pistes to allow the first round to take place in no more than
      two series of pools.

 7    During the finals, the organisers must display signs on the piste indicating the names and
      nationalities of the fencers.

 8    For the presentation of the prizes, the protocol rules of the FIE must be applied (cf. FIE
      Administrative Rules).

 9    There must be a medical doctor present on the premises of the competition for the whole duration
      of the competition.

10    There must be an anti-doping test conforming to the regulations of the FIE (cf. o.107 and the FIE
      Anti-Doping Rules).



                                              Chapter 2

                                            GLOSSARY

      Assaults and bouts
