One round of pools of 6 or 7 persons per pool,
     Super Junior and Cadet Circuit
                                                                     100% promoted to simple direct elimination
                                                               One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool,
             Y14 SYC & NAC
                                                                    100% promoted to simple direct elimination.
                                                               One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool,
       Y14 National Championship
                                                                     80% promoted to simple direct elimination.
                                                       One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool, 100% promoted
Y12 NAC, Regional and Super Youth Circuit
                                                            to direct simple elimination in which bouts are 15 touch bouts.
                                                               One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool,
       Y12 National Championship
                                                                     80% promoted to simple direct elimination.
          Y10 NAC, National
                                              One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool, 100% promoted to simple direct
       Championships, Regional &
                                                     elimination in which bouts are 10 touch bouts with two 3 minute periods.
          Super Youth Circuit
                                              One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool. 100% promoted to simple direct
                                                elimination in which bouts are 10 touch bouts with two 3 minute periods. There is a
          Veteran Age NAC &                                              one-minute rest between periods.
        National Championships                    For Vet 70 and Vet 80 events with pools of 8 or more, , the pools will not be double
                                              stripped until the pool is half complete; i.e. after the 14th bout in a pool of 8 and after the
                                                                                18th bout in a pool of 9.
                                               One round of pools; 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 persons per pool. In V70 and V80 events, pools
                                                with 8 or more fencers will not be allowed to double strip until the pool is halfway
           Veteran Open NAC
                                              completed 100% promoted to single direct elimination in which bouts are 10 touch bouts
                                                     with two 3 minute periods. There is a one minute rest between periods.
                                               All event sizes will include 100% promotion to DE’s. Events with 5 or fewer fencers: one
Parafencing NAC & National Championships       pool, two rounds of pools. Events with 6-9 fencers: one pool, one round of pools. Event
                                                       with 10 or more fencers: 5, 6, or 7 persons per pool, one round of pools.
                                                The tournament is seeded based upon the ratings of all fencers. The parafencers and
                                                able-bodied fencers will be able to earn ratings from this event based upon the USA
                                              Fencing Event Rating Chart. During the competition, all able-bodied fencers will compete
  *Parafencing Walk N Roll Tournaments
                                                 against each other using traditional able-body rules. When two parafencers, or an
                                              able-bodied and parafencer, fence in pools or direct elimination bouts, the bout will take
                                                                 place in a seated position using parafencing rules.
                                               Direct elimination from beginning of competition. Relay format, 9 bouts to a maximum
        Team Competitions NAC &
                                                score of 45 – increments of 5 touches or maximum time of 3 minutes for each bout.
            Championships
                                                                                 Fence-off for 3rd.


*The “Walk N Roll” is a tournament variation allowed at local level events. This tournament allows for both
able-bodied and parafencer to compete in the same competition. The tournament must have appropriately
USA Fencing rated referees and all parafencing bouts must be fenced in competition wheelchair frames.

Parafencing Open Classification Tournament
The tournament is seeded based upon the ratings of all fencers. Parafencers and able-bodied fencers are
able to earn ratings from this event based upon the USA Fencing Event Rating Chart. During the competition
all fencers compete in fencing chairs and frames and follow parafencing rules, regardless of classification or
able-bodied fencer. This event is open to able-bodied fencers, parafencers, and athletes found “Not Eligible”
in parafencing classification. Competition follows Parafencing NAC format.




                                            38 | USA FENCING | Athlete Handbook | 2026-2027
