t.106
           In applying these basic conventions of sabre fencing, the Referee should judge as follows:

      1    When during a phrase both fencers are hit simultaneously there is either a simultaneous
           action or a double hit:

           The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by both
           fencers; in this case the hits exchanged are annulled for both fencers.

      2    The double hit (coup double) on the other hand, is the result of a clearly faulty action on the
           part of one of the fencers.

           Therefore, when there is not an interval of fencing time between the hits:
      3    The fencer who is attacked is alone counted as hit:

      a)   If he makes a stop hit on his opponent’s simple attack;

      b)   If, instead of parrying, he attempts to avoid the hit and does not succeed in so doing;

      c)   If, after making a successful parry, he makes a momentary pause (delayed riposte) which
           gives his opponent the right to renew the attack (redoublement, or remise or reprise);

      d)   If, during a compound attack, he makes a stop hit without being in time;

      e)   If, having his point ‘in line’ (cf. t.15) and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the blade (prise
           de fer) which deflects his blade, he attacks or places his point in line again instead of parrying
           a direct hit made by his opponent.

      4    The fencer who attacks is alone counted as hit:
      a)   If he initiated his attack when his opponent had his point ‘in line’ (cf. t.15), without deflecting
           the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not
           considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.

      b)   If he attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (because of a derobement) and continues
           the attack.

      c)   If, during a compound attack, he allows his opponent to find the blade, and continues the attack
           while his opponent ripostes immediately.

      d)   If, during a compound attack, he bends his arm or makes a momentary pause, during
           which time the opponent makes a stop hit or an attack while the attacker continues his own
           attack.

      e)   If, during a compound attack, he is stop-hit one period of fencing time (temps d’escrime) before
           he makes his final movement.

      f)   If he makes a hit by a remise, redoublement or reprise following a parry by his opponent
           which has been followed by a riposte which is immediate, simple and executed in one
           period of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.

      5    When there is a double hit, and if the Referee is unable clearly to judge from which side the
           fault has come, he must replace the competitors on guard.


FIE
                                                         36
                                                                                             August 2026




                      DISCIPLINARY RULES FOR COMPETITIONS
                                                  Chapter 1
                                               APPLICATION

          Persons subject to these rules
