t.124




FIE
                                                      39
                                                                                            August 2026


          There is unwillingness to fight when there is one minute of fencing without a hit or without a hit
          scored off the target.

          In the event of unwillingness to fight, the Referee will immediately call ‘Halt!’ as a decision of
          "fact" (cf.t.136.2).

          Unwillingness to fight is sanctioned as follows (t.170):


      1   Individual events – Direct elimination

          P-red Cards are awarded to both fencers simultaneously. The P-Black card is awarded as
          described in 1.b) below.

          a) When, for the first time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee sanctions
          both fencers with a P-red card.

          b) When, for the second time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, a P-black card is
          awarded as follows:

               i) If the scores of the two fencers are equal, the Referee sanctions the fencer with the
               lower initial seeding in the competition, which is based on the FIE ranking and by drawing
               lots among any fencers who are not in the ranking, with a P-Black card. The fencer with
               the higher initial seeding in the competition, which is based on the FIE ranking, wins the
               bout.

               ii) If the scores of the two fencers are not equal, the Referee sanctions the fencer with the
               lower score with a P-Black card. The fencer with the higher score wins the bout.

      2   Team events

          P-Red cards are awarded to the two teams simultaneously. The P-Black card is awarded as
          described in 2.b) below.

          a) When, for the first time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, the Referee sanctions
          both teams with a P-red card.

          b) When, for the second time, there is one minute of unwillingness to fight, a P-Black card is
          awarded as follows:

             i) If the scores for the two teams are equal, the Referee sanctions the team with the lower
             initial seeding in the competition, which is based on the FIE ranking, with a P-Black card.
             The team with the higher initial seeding in the competition, which is based on the FIE ranking,
             wins the match.
             ii) If the scores for the two teams are not equal, the Referee sanctions the team with the
             lower score with a P-Black card. The team with the higher score wins the match.


      3   In both individual and team competitions

          a) The P-red (penalty hit) and P-black (the possible losing of a bout or match) cards received
          during any one bout or match (during all 9 relays) are valid only for that bout or match. They
          are not transferable to the following bout or match.

          No P-card (red or black) may be awarded in individual competitions at 14-14 or in team
          matches at 44-44.

          b) In both individual and team competitions, fencers and teams who have lost the bout/match
          following the award of a P-Black card, will be ranked in the final results of the competition as
          having lost the bout/match. They receive the corresponding points.
FIE
                                                      40
                                                                                              August 2026


         c) In both individual and team competitions, the period/relay continues after the awarding of a P-
         Red card.

         d) The minute starts again after each hit, each hit off the target, each hit annulled, each penalty
         hit and at the beginning of each period or relay.

         e) The referee must record these P-red and P-black cards separately on the score sheet. The
         sanctions awarded for unwillingness to fight are not cumulative with any other sanction awarded.

         f) In both individual and team competitions, if, at the end of the regulation time, there is equality
         of scores, article t.124 does not apply and articles t.40.3 and t.41.5 will apply.
