t.45
          1. For any injury or other medical reason which occurs in the course of a bout and which is
             properly attested by the delegate of the FIE Medical Commission or, in his/her absence, by the
             doctor and/or medical provider on duty, the Referee will allow a break in the fight lasting no
             longer than 5 minutes. Only the doctor and/or medical provider on duty can determine the
             length of time of treatment required when a medical time-out is granted. This break should
             be timed from the intervention of the delegate of the FIE Medical commission or, in his
             absence, the doctor. gave his opinion. This break should be strictly reserved for the requisite

FIE
                                                        15
                                                                                               August 2026


              treatment. If the delegate of the FIE Medical Commission or, in his absence, the doctor
              on duty considers, before or at the end of the 5 minute break, that the fencer is incapable of
              continuing the fight, he/she will decide that the fencer should retire (individual events) and/or
              be replaced, if possible (team events) (cf. o.99.6.a/b).

              If the athlete retires and a medical withdrawal is determined, the FIE Medical delegate or, in
              his/her absence, the doctor or medical provider on duty must fully complete the FIE Medical
              Withdrawal form and submit it to the Directoire Technique for its inclusion into the FIE
              supervisor’s final report.

             All breaks for a medical reason must be noted on the score-sheet for the bout, the pool or the
             match.

          2. During the remainder of the same day, a fencer cannot be allowed a further break unless as a
             result of a different injury or other medical reason.

          3. Should a fencer demand a break which is deemed by the delegate of the Medical Commission
             or, in his absence, by the doctor on duty to be unjustified, the Referee will penalise that fencer
             as specified in Articles t.158-162, t.166, t.170 for the offences of the 2nd group.

          4. In team events a fencer judged unable to continue the bout by the delegate of the FIE Medical
              Commission or, in his absence, by the doctor on duty may, nevertheless, on the advice of the
              same delegate of the FIE Medical Commission/doctor, fight in subsequent matches on the
              same day.

          5. The Directoire Technique may modify the order of bouts in a pool in order to ensure the
              efficient running of the competition (cf. o.71.1).




                                                  Chapter 6

                               REFEREEING AND JUDGING OF HITS
