t.50
      1    For the rounds of pools and the direct elimination table, the Refereeing Delegates select the
           referees by drawing lots.
      2    For the pools, the referee must be of a different nationality from that any of the fencers in
           the pool if possible.

      3    For the direct elimination tables at each weapon, the Refereeing Delegates establish,
           among the referees present, a list of the best referees at each weapon (according to the grades
           obtained during the season).

           For each quarter of the table, referees are assigned by drawing lots from among at least of 3 to
           4 referees, to referee the bouts in the order of the table. They must be of a different nationality

FIE
                                                        17
                                                                                            August 2026


          from that of any of the fencers participating in that quarter of the table if possible. Then, the
          video-referees will be assigned by drawing lots among a list of at least 3 to 4 referees.
          As well as the two groups of the referees and the video-referees could be assigned by drawing
          lots to referee the bouts in the order of the table.

          Lots are drawn by the computer at each stage of the table but may be modified by the
          Refereeing Delegates in case of any problem with the computer programme, mistakes made by
          the operator of the computer programme and in case of conflicts between category A or B (FIE
          Statutes, CHAPTER XII - ETHICAL CODE). In any case where the computer draw is modified,
          it must be with the agreement of the Directoire Technique and signed by both the Refereeing
          Delegate and the President of the DT.

          At each referees’ meeting before any competition, the referees will be asked to declare their
          potential conflicts of interest to the Refereeing Delegate or to the President of the Directoire
          technique (for cadet and junior competitions). This information must be notified to the FIE by the
          Refereeing Delegate or the Directoire technique President (for cadet and junior competitions).

      4   At the end of each round, the Refereeing Delegates can withdraw one or more referees whose
          performance was not satisfactory. This decision must be taken by the majority of the Refereeing
          Delegates present. However, a referee may not be changed during a bout except in exceptional
          circumstance. In such a case the decision, which must be well founded, must be taken by the
          majority of the Refereeing Delegates present (this rule is equally valid for team competitions).

      5   For the final of 4, the Refereeing Delegates, immediately after the end of the direct elimination
          tables, select 4 referees by lot from among at least a list of 4 to 5 referees, who must be of a
          different nationality from any of the fencers.
          15 minutes before the final, the Refereeing Delegates will draw lots to assign the referees for
          all the bouts at the same time, in the following order: 1st semi-final, 2nd semi-final.
          As soon as the two semi-finals are over, the Refereeing Delegates will establish a list of 4 or 5
          referees and draw lots to assign the referee and video-referee for the final as well as (at the
          OG) the referee and video-referee for the 3rd place bout.

      6   The drawing of lots is done with the help of a computer for the whole of the competition right
          through to the final. The computer programme must record each drawing of lots so that it is
          possible to know which referees were submitted for each draw. The computer programme
          should also be able to indicate whether the draw for any round was subsequently redone.

      7   In conformity with articles t.50.2 and t.50.3, the designation of the video-referee must be
          made by drawing lots using a computer programme. The name and nationality of the video-
          referee must also be written on the pool or match sheet, beside those of the referee.

          Team Competitions
