t.56
           The Referee must also apply the following rules:

      1    Only the last hit made before the fault was established can be annulled and then only if it is the
           competitor against whom the hit was registered who is placed at a disadvantage by the failure.
      2    The failure must be established by tests made immediately after the bout was stopped, under
           the supervision of the Referee and without changing anything whatever of the equipment in use.

      3    A competitor who makes any modification in or who changes his equipment without
           being asked by the Referee to do so, before the Referee has given his decision, loses all right
           to the annulment of the hit.

      4    If the bout has effectively recommenced a competitor cannot claim the annulment of a hit
           awarded against him before the said recommencement of the bout.
      5    With these tests, one is trying only to establish whether there is material possibility of a mistake
           in the judgement as a result of a fault. The location of a fault found in the equipment (including
           the equipment of the competitors) is of no importance for this possible annulment.

      6    It is not necessary that the failure found should repeat itself each time a test is made; but it
           is essential that the fault should be observed by the Referee without the possibility of doubt at
           least once during the tests made by him or under his supervision.

      7    When a competitor against whom a hit has been registered has broken his blade, the hit
           must be annulled unless the breaking of the blade has occurred clearly after the hit has been
           registered.

      8    The Referee must pay particular attention to hits which do not register or which are
           registered abnormally. Should such defects be repeated, the Referee must ask a member
           of the SEMI Committee or an expert technician on duty to verify that the equipment conforms
           to the Rules.

      9    The Referee must ensure that nothing is altered in the competitors’ equipment or in the
           whole of the electrical apparatus before the expert carries out his check.

      10   Hit made during or after a fall must be annulled.

      11   A competitor who, intentionally drops his/her weapon during the fencing phrase will be
           penalised as specified in Articles t.166 and t.170, for the offences of the 2nd group. However,
           a hit scored by the opponent is valid, provided that the action was started before the ‘Halt!’.
