t.89
            In applying these basic conventions of foil fencing, the Referee should judge as follows:
      1     When, during a phrase, both fencers are hit simultaneously, there is either a simultaneous
            action or a double hit.

      2     The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by both
            fencers; in this case the hits exchanged are annulled for both fencers even if one of them has
            been hit off the target.

      3     The double hit, on the other hand, is the result of a faulty action on the part of one of the fencers.
            Therefore, when there is not a period of fencing time between the hits:

      4     Only the fencer who is attacked is counted as hit:

      a)    If he makes a stop hit on his opponent’s simple attack;

FIE
                                                         30
                                                                                            August 2026


      b)   If, instead of parrying, he attempts to dodge the hit and does not succeed in so doing;

      c)   If, after making a successful parry, he makes a momentary pause which gives his opponent
           the right to renew the attack (redoublement, remise or reprise);

      d)   If, into a compound attack, he makes a stop hit without being in time;

      e)   If, having his ‘point in line’ (cf. t.15) and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the blade
           (prise de fer) which deflects his blade, he attacks or places his point in line again instead of
           parrying a direct thrust made by his opponent.

      5    Only the fencer who attacks is counted as hit:

      a)   If he initiates his attack when his opponent has his point in line (cf. t.15) without deflecting
           the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not
           considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.

      b)   If he attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (is the object of a dérobement) and
           continues the attack.

      c)   If, during a compound attack, his opponent finds the blade, but he continues the attack and his
           opponent ripostes immediately.

      d)   If, during a compound attack, he makes a momentary pause, during which time the opponent
           makes a stop hit, while the attacker continues his attack.

      e)   If, during a compound attack, he is stop-hit in time before he begins his final movement.

      f)   If he makes a hit by a remise, redoublement or reprise when his original attack has been parried
           and his opponent has made a riposte which is immediate, simple, and executed in one period
           of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.

      6    The Referee must replace the competitors on guard each time that there is a double hit and
           he is unable to judge clearly on which side the fault lies.




                                                  EPEE

                            THE CONVENTIONS OF FENCING

           METHOD OF MAKING A HIT
